INTRODUCTION YOURSELF					prepared by Uğur ARSLAN, @arslanuguur
	Tell me about yourself...!?


--> STRATEGY ON SELF-INTRODUCTION
01- Greetings
02- Your name								-- Who You Are [Name, where you are from, some personal background]
03- Location
04- Position and Company (Work Life)					-- Talk about the internships and workshops you have attended
05- Qualifications (Education Life)					-- What have you studied [educational qualifications]
06- Experience & Professional Training					-- Talk about the internships and workshops you have attended
07- Family
08- Hobbies & Interests							-- Do not hesitate to take the conversation to an informal tone
09- Age
10- Fun Fact about yourself

		WARNING:
		* do not consume a lot of time giving your self-introduction
		* the first impression is the last impression - hand shake
		* when you’re talking, smile and look them in the eyes self-confidently..
		* presenting yourself as knowledgeable and confident shows your potential employers that you’re the right choice for the opportunity
		* dont ask ‘what do you want to know?’. It shows that you are not prepared.
		* when you think you should be defending in your mind, you should be offending / attacking more
		* Using Some High Impact Words include some high-impact words in your answer such as 
			Adapt		Design		Prepare		Conduct		Implement	Promote
			Develop		Maintain	Control		Improve		Supervise	Increase
			
		* YOU NEED TO INTRODUCE YOURSELF WITHOUT ANY FOREWARNING, THEREFORE YOU NEED TO BE PREPARED
		* PREWRITING IS A MUST



1 --> GREETINGS
		Hey!
		Hello!
		Good Morning, Good Afternoon, Good Evening
            
		How are you doing today  (neler yapıyorsun bugün)
					I'm doing good (iyidir)
            
		How is/was your day (going)? (günün nasıl geçer/geçti)
					(my day is/was) good 			benim günüm iyi/iyiydi      day != night
					my day was so tiring 			günüm çok yorucuydu     
					I studied all day long 			tüm gün boyunca ders çalıştım
					I worked all day long 			tüm gün boyunca çalıştım
					did you rest enough? 			yeterince dinlendin mi?
						yes, I rested enough 			yeterince dinlendim
						no, I didnt rest enough 		yeterince dinlenmedim
					it was a busy day 			meşgul bir gündü
					today i was so busy 			bugün meşguldüm
					it was good				iyiydi
					it was stressful 			stresliydi
					it was so tiring 			çok yorucuydu
					I had a good day 			iyi bir güne sahip oldum
					I had a very busy day 			meşgul bir gün geçirdim
					I was at work all day 			tüm gün işteydim
					I enjoyed my day 			günümün keyfini çıkardım

2 --> YOUR NAME
		What is your name?      
					I’m ..
					I am ..
					My name is ..		* Always your full name in a confident voice!

					It’s nice to meet you in person
					
		Can you spell your name? (ismini harf harf söyleyebilir misin?)
					A(ey), B(bi), C(si), D(di), E(i), F(ef), G(ci), H(eyc), I(ay) 
					J(cey), K(key), L(el), M(em), N(en), O(o), P(pi), Q(kyu), R(ar)
					S(es), T(ti), U(yu), V(vi), W(dabılyu), X(eks), Y(vay), Z(zet)

3 --> LOCATION   
		tell me about the place you live?   (yaşadığın yer hakkında bana anlat)
					I live in İstanbul
					I stay in Kadıköy
					Being with my friends in the same neighborhood makes me happy
					Our house is on third floor
					There are some trees, and roses in our garden
            
		tell me about your town?      (senin şehrin hakkında bana anlat)
					my town is ...
					It is a big city and crowded enough
					there is much fun in the town
            
		where are you from?      
					I’m from Turkey  
					I live in İstanbul from Turkey
					I’m originally from Edinburgh but I’m now based in London
					I am from İstanbul, born and bred - doğma büyüme İstanbulluyum

		where do you live?      
					I live in Ankara
      
		what is your nationality?
					I’m turkish
            
		where do you come from?
					I come from Turkey / Switzerland / Sweden / Russia / Greece / Japan / Mexico / Brazil
		where did you come from?
					I came from Turkey / Germany / England / Poland / France / China / Spain / Portugal
      
		where is your address?  
					My address is behind the Saatçioğlu Mosque
						   .. near Hazım Kulak High School
						   .. next to swimming pool in Büyük Bölcek
            
					Key Words:
						in front of # behind		önünde # arkasında
						on the right / left		sağda / solda
						turn from the right / left	sağdan / soldan dön
						street - sokak
						neighborhood - mahalle
						in city centre / downtown - şehir merkezinde  
						  
						  
           
		where were you born?    
                                    I was born in Antalya
                                    I was born (in) and raised in Antalya
            
		when were you born?     
                                    I was born in 1995
                                    I was born on the 27th of January
            
		where did you grow up?  
                                    I grew up in…
                                    I grew up in LA, now live in NY
            
		how many years did you live in there?
                                    I lived in there for two years
                                    I lived in Ankara for seven years 
            
		where have you been living for seven years?
                                    I have been living in Berlin for seven years
            
		how many years have you been living in Berlin?
                                    I have been living in Berlin for twenty years
                                    I have been living in Berlin since my birth
                                    I have been living in Berlin since 1995
                                                            
		where have you spent the past few years?
                                    I have spent the past few years in Paris
                                    I have spent two years in İstanbul
                                     
                                     
                                     
4 --> POSITION and COMPANY
		what's your job?                                --> I am a teacher with 2 years of experience 
                   ...  occupation?                         	--> I am an architect
                   ...  profession?                         	--> I am an engineer with 5 years of experience
                   ...  specialization?                     	--> I am a technician
                                                            	--> she is a computer operator
                                                            	--> I am an architect, I draw buildings
		what do you do for work?                        --> I don't work now, I am an unemployed
                                                            	--> I am not working now, I am a student
                                                            	--> I don't work anymore, I am retired
                                                            	--> I worked for several/various jobs, now i am retired
                      
                      
		where do you work?
                                    I work as a teacher at school
                                    I work as an engineer in a factory/company
                                    I work as an accountant in a hotel
                                    I work as a deputy manager
                                    I work as a product manager
                                    I work as a quality controller in a factory
            
            
		where did you work before?
                                    I worked in a hospital before
                                    I worked in a bank before
                                    I didn't work before, I'm still a student/intern
                  
                                    I work at ‘company’ in the ‘...department’
                                                I work at Google in the marketing department
                                    I am a ‘position’ at ‘company’.
                                                I’m a manager at Starbucks.
                                    I work in ‘general area’.
                                                I work in sales.

					In my current job at ABC company, I achieved an average of 12 % sales growth over the three years. 


		where did you work last?
                                    I worked in a factory (last)
                                    I worked at a private school
            
		why did you leave (from the job)?
                                    I left from my job, because ...
            
		why did you leave/resign/quit from your job?
                                    because, I wanted to change my job                          - çünkü işimi değiştirmek istedim
                                    because, I found a new job / a better job (somewhere else)  - çünkü yeni bir iş / daha iyi bir iş buldum (başka yerde)
                                    because, I (have) completed my internship                   - çünkü stajımı tamamladım
                                    because, work conditions weren't good/proper to me          - çünkü çalışma şartları bana iyi/uygun değildi
                                    
		what is your career plan for our company?
                                    To be honest, I want to improve myself with the help of your company.
                                    I'm thinking of working for a long time
                                    I have much willingness about being a part of this culture and values
                                    I believe that there is no better place to acquire this kind of professional work culture.
            
		how long are you going to work with us?
            
		what is your purpose of working with us?

		Why are you interested in this position right now? 



5 --> QUALIFICATIONS
		what do you study?
                                    I study Civil Engineering
                                    I study Architecture
                                    
		what did you study?
                                    I studied Electrical Engineering
                                    
		how many years are you student/teacher/engineer/economist/builder/waiter..?
                                    I am student for sixteen years
                                    I am teacher for six months
                                    I am engineer for eight years
                                    I am nurse since 2000
                                    I am nurse for twenty-one years
      
                                    I have a associate/bachelor degree - Önlisans/Lisans derecesine sahibim
                                    I’m about to graduate - nerdeyse mezunum/mezuna kaldım
                                    I am a ‘subject’ graduate. --> I am a marketing graduate
                                    I have a bachelor of arts degree in marketing.
                                    I am a biology postgrad - lisansüstü biyoloji mezunuyum
                                    I studied in vocational school/university
                                                            meslek lisesi/mesleki üniversitede okudum
                                    I graduated from a vocational high school with an associate degree
                                                            önlisans derecesiyle meslek yüksek okulundan mezun oldum
                                    I have a master/PhD degree (Doctor of Philosophy)
                                    I went to Turkish school in Saudi Arabia
                                    I am currently taking a course in ‘theorical subject’.
                                    I am currently taking a course in maths.
                                    I am currently taking a course on ‘practical subject’ 
      
      
                                    ... taking a ‘subject’ course
                                    I am taking a pottery course
                                    a course on jewellery/pottery making

                                    I have completed a ‘time’ course in/on ‘subject’.
                                    number-unit of time
                                    A 72-hour ‘subject’ course
                                    A 3-day ‘subject’ course

                                    I want to get promoted in Nursery
                                                           to my civil service  --> memurluğum için terfi almak istiyorum
                                       

6 --> EXPERIENCE
		* Just touch upon an experience if you want to highlight any specific quality.
				Belirli bir niteliği vurgulamak istiyorsanız, bir deneyime değinmeniz yeterlidir. 
		
		
            When did you graduate from primary/secondary school?
                                    I graduated from primary/secondary school in 2000
                                    I have ‘number’ years of experience in the ‘occupation’ field.
                                    I have 3 years of experience in the neuroscience field
                                    I have ‘number’ years of ‘occupation’ experience
                                    I have 10 years of sales experience
                                    I have worked in ‘occupation’ field for ‘unit of time’
                                    I have worked in the accounting field for three years
            What do you think about your future?
                                    I want to be a dentist in the future
                                    I want to be a music teacher


7 --> FAMILY
            how many people in your family? 
                                    There are five people in my family
                                    I have five people in my family
                                    I am from a family of four      --> (dört kişilik bir ailedenim)
                                    We are a family of four         --> (dört kişilik bir aileyiz)
            how many brothers/sisters (siblings) do you have? --> I have a brother
                                                              --> I have two sisters
      
            my family is made up of my father, mother, two brothers and two sisters
                              (benim ailem babam, annem, iki erkek kardeşim ve iki kız kardeşimden oluşur.)
            
            Tell me about your family?     
                                    My father is ...
                                    My mother is ...
                                    My brother/sister is ...
                                    My elder brother is ...
                                    My younger sister is ...
            
            How old is your brother/sister?
                                    My brother is 'number' years old
                                    My sister is 'number' years old
                  
                                    I am one of ‘number’ siblings
                                    I am one of four siblings. / I am one of four
                                    I am an only child
                                    I want to have a younger brother
                                    I am/was the first born in my family - ailemde ilk doğan çocuk benim/bendim
                                    It's tough being a middle child - ortanca çocuk olmak zor
                                    She is a middle child  - o ortanca çocuk
                                    I am an only child - ben tek çocuğum
                                    She is my youngest (daughter) - o benim en küçük/genç kızım
                                    He is my eldest son - o benim en büyük oğlum
                                    This is Chris my second child - bu Chris, benim ikinci çocuğum
                                    He is our third child - o bizim üçüncü oğlumuz
                                    she is his fourth child/daughter - o, onun dördüncü çocuğu/kızı

            How many rooms are there in your apartment/flat?
                                    There are four/five rooms in my flat
      

            Do you live with your parents?      
                                    Yes, I live with my parents
                                    No, I don't live with my parents, I live alone. 
            Are you living with your parents?   
                                    Yes, I am living with my parents
                                    No, I am not living with my parents, I live alone.

8 --> HOBBIES
            What are you interested in?
                                    I am interested in ...
                                    I am interested in playing piano
            
            What is your hobby?
	    What are your hobbies?
                                    	My hobby is ...
                                    	My hobbies are playing guitar, swimming, reading book 
					During weekends, I go to gym
            				I want to improve myself about foreign languages
					I'm currently reading a book about financial technology to better familiarize myself with the industry and its ongoing trends.
					
					
            what do you like to do?
                                    I like to play piano
                                    I really like running
                                    I really enjoy tennis
                                    I am a big fan of ‘hobby’
                                    I’m a big fan of go karting.
                                    I am a keen runner
                                    I am a keen tennis player

9 --> AGE
            May I know your age?
                                    I am ‘number’.
                                    my age is 30 y/o
                                    I am ‘number’ years old
                                    I’m in my ‘early/mid/late’ + ‘decade’.
                                    I’m in my mid-twenties
                                    She’s in her early teens
                                    He’s in his late-forties
                                    He’s a thirty-something accountant

10 --> FUN FACT ABOUT YOURSELF
				- an interesting fear
				- a weird like or dislike
				- facts about your pet
				- strange achievement or extraordinary experience
					My parents have black eyes but mine are blue. I think I was adopted
					If I won the lottery, the first thing I would buy share from this company 
					My dream vacation is going to Cappadocia and riding in a hot air balloon.
    					I love to cook. My signature dish is homemade spaghetti and meatballs.
    					I'm currently taking Spanish courses because I hope to visit Spain at the end of the year.
    					If I could have any superpower, it would be to speak any language so I could connect with anyone in the world.
					An accomplishment I'm most proud of is teaching myself how to play the guitar in three months.
    					When I was younger, I wanted to be a pilot, which led me to later earn my pilot's license.
    					I have a collection of mugs. I get a new mug in every country I go to, so I currently have 24.
    					In high school and college, I starred as a lead in four different musicals
    					I have five siblings. Two older brothers and two younger sisters. 
						We're all close in age, so most of us grew up attending the same schools as each other.
    					I had two pet hamsters when I was younger.
    					My favourite meal to cook is salted egg, chicken and rice. 
						I serve it at holiday gatherings with my family every year.
					The first car I ever owned was a red sedan.
    					My favourite animal is a dog because they're so energetic and friendly.
					


### GENERAL QUESTIONS
		tell me about yourself
                                    I'm ...
                                    I am a student/teacher
                                    I am ... years old
                                    I have a brother/sister
                                    I have two brothers
                                                my first brother is thirty-five years old
                                                my second brother is twenty-two years old
      
		tell me about your best friend
                                    my best friend is ... 
                                    his name is ...
                                    her name is ...
                                    he is a very good friend
                                    he is very talkative
                                    he is ... years old
                                    he likes playing football/basketball
                                    he lives in Ankara
                                    he studies Physics/Architecture
                                    he works in a factory
                                    he sells computers
                                    we are friends with him/her since university
                                    he has black hair and blue eyes

		tell me about your home/house


		tell me about someone in your family
                                    I have a brother
                                    he has short brown hair
                                    he is shorter than me
                                    he is eleven years old. I am older than him
                                    his favorite team is Galatasaray 
                                    he plays football with his friends outside
                                    he plays games on his phone/computer
                                    we sometimes do homework together
                                    he messes with me
      
                                    I have an older/younger brother
                                    he graduated from secondary school/high school
                                    he is twenty-eight years old and he is engaged (he has a fiance)
                                    he is well-built
                                          thin
                                          fat
                                    he has black hair
                                    he works as painter/worker
                                    sometimes, we don't get along with each other (on some subjects)
                                    he sometimes says better ideas than me
      
                                    I have a sister
                                    she has blonde hair
                                    we are twins (I have a twin)
                                    she is student in primary school
                                    she doesn't like doing homework
                                    she is jealous / envious / shy / hardworking
                                    she has a dog and looks after the dog 
                                    sometimes, she goes out with her friends

 		Tell me about your job
                                    I worked as a receptionist, accountant, customer service officer, bank officer, customs officer, store manager
      
		Do you like your job?
                                    I like my job
            
	 	What are the good aspects of your job?

		What do you want to be in your future?
                                    I want to be a music teacher in my future or I want to be ... in state symphony orchestra. 
                                    I want to be a mechanical engineer in my future
                                    I want to be a lawyer or a translator in my future
                                    I want to be a pre-school teacher/an academician
		
		Where do you see yourself in 5 years?
		
		Where is your favorite country? Why?
                                    My favorite country is Scotland, because Scotland is a well-developed and peaceful country

 		what do you study?
                                    I study   
                                    I don't study
            
 		do you study or work?         (are you student or work?)
                                    No, I don't work, because I am still a student. I study ... at school/university.
                                    No, I don't study, because I work as a teacher/architect/engineer/technician/accountant
            
		what do you do in the evening?
                                    I eat dinner in the evening
                                    I watch TV in the evening
                                    I meet with friends outside and we hang out together
                                    I do my homework on computer
                                    I play computer games
                                    I do my homework, also I read a book in the evening
                                    I eat dinner / I cook dinner  
                                    I draw pictures and drink (turkish) coffee in the evening
                                    I go to sleep at eleven
            
            	do you watch TV?
                                    Yes, I do --> Yes, I sometimes watch TV
                                    No, I don't --> No, I don't watch TV much
            
            	when do you watch TV?
                                    I watch TV in the evening
            	
            	how often do you watch TV?
                                    I watch television once or twice a week
            
            	when do you go on holiday?
                                    I go on holiday once a year           (once = one time)
                                                    twice a year          (twice = two times)
                                                    three times a year
            
            	what do you do after work?
                                    I get home by car
                                    I arrive at home by foot

            	what do you do after school?
                                    I arrive at home by bus service
                                    I change my clothes
                                    I eat dinner
                                    I play online games
                                    I eat some snacks
                                    I listen to music       /     I play violin/guitar
                                    I sometimes watch movie / series
                                    I sometimes read a book
                                    I sometimes go out and walk around
                                    I study lessons / I do my homework
                                    I sleep at eleven
                                    I sleep late at two/three

            	how do you get to places?
                                    I get to places by bus
                                                    by car
                                                    by walking
                                                    by plane

            	what food do you like?
                                    I like orange fruit
                                    I like eating salad
                                    I like eating chichen wrap
                                    I like rice, beans, soup
                                    I like pastas/burger/soup

            	what films do you like?
                                    I like action/adventure films
                                           thriller films
                                           romance and comedy films
             
            	what do you do when you wake up?
                                    I wash my face and my hands
                                    I have breakfast at nine 

            	what do you do in the morning?
                                    I get up at seven in the morning
      
            	what did you do last night?
                                    I watched TV last night
                                    I talked with my friend
				    I was at school, after that I got back home
            	how often do you meet with your friends?
					I meet with my friends four times a week
			

            	how often do you go out with your friends?
                        		I go out with my friends every evening 

	    	how often do you have an English lesson?
          				I have an English Lesson twice a week
			
            	how often do you go out?
                                    I go out twice a day / a week / a month / a year
                                    I go out every day
                                    I go out every weekend

            	how do you make friends before you go to Poland?
                                    I made friends online before I go to Poland

            	what do you do in your free time?
                                    I listen to music in my free time
                                    I watch movies
                                    I like reading a book / a science fictional book

            	what do you do on your holiday?
                                    I swim, eat and drink on my holiday
            
            	who is your best friend?
                                    ABC is my best friend

            	when do you have some free time?

            	is your house big?
            
            	why are you learning English?
                                    because I want to improve myself on English
            
            	Do you play sports?
                                    Yes, I do sports at the weekend
                                    No, I don't do sports. I don't have time
            
            	what is difficult in your job?
            
            	when do you finish work?
                                    at four 
            
            	why did you start this job?

            	what did you do yesterday?
                                    I went to gym
                                    I went shopping
            
            	where did you go shopping?
            
            	what time does your English lesson start?

            	do you have any hobby?
                                    yes, I have some hobby such as swimming, learning English

            	what other hobbies would you like to have?
            
            	when do you have time for your hobby?
            
            	do you have the same hobby as any of your friends?
            
            	do you want to change your jobs?
            
            	how do people think about you?
            
            	how often do you have an English lesson?
                                    I have an English lesson twice a week
            
            	what time do you wake up?
                                    I wake up at six
            
            	what time do you get up?
                                    I wake up at half past seven
            
            	what do you usually do at noon?
                                    I usually go out to have lunch at noon
            
            	do you have time to see your friends and family?
            
            	what time do you usually have dinner?
                                    I usually have dinner at seven
            
            	who do you spend most of your day with?
            
            	which city do you live?
                                    I live in Ankara
            
            	where do you live?
                                    I live in Istanbul
            
            	where do you usually go at the weekend?
            
            	do you like your city?
                                    I like my city
            
            	why do you like your city?
                                    Because, it's a historical and cultural city
            
            	would you like to live in a city or a town?
	    				
            
            	what do you like most about your town/city?
      					My city is very quiet and not overcrowded, therefore I like here
					
            	would you like to move to another city/town?
                                    	Yes, i would like to move to another city
				    	No, I wouldn't like to move anywhere else
				    
            	what would you like to change in your city/town?
	    				I would like to see some cultural events in my city
			
            	how do you usually go/walk/get around?
            				I walk around the city centre by walking everyday
					I get around the city by a car 
            
	    	do you spend a lot of time at work?
            				I am at work between eight am and five pm
					
            	why do you watch videos/movies/series on Netflix/Youtube?
            				
            	what is your brother/sister/husband/wife/boyfriend/girlfriend like?
            				my brother/sister/husband/wife/boyfriend/girlfriend is ...
					
					
            	what do you do to have fun with your family?
            
            	do you see your family a lot?
					I generally see my family a few times a day
            
            	do you live with your parents?
	    				I live with my parents
					I don't live with my parents
					I live alone/single
            
            	do you spend a lot of time outside the home with your family?
            				Not much. only at weekends. Usually we walk around the city centre
					
            	where can i buy a mobile phone?
                                    	you can buy a mobile phone from any store
					
            	how do you travel to places?
            				I travel to places by walking
							   by car
							   by bus
							   
            	what time do you usually go to bed?
                                    	I usually go to bed at eleven 
            
            	when is your birthday?
					my birthday is 25th January
            
            	when do you go on holiday?
                                    	I go on holiday every summer
            
            	what weather do you like?
                                    	I like sunny/rainy/cloudy
            
            	how do you usually get around?
	    				I usually get around with my parents
							     with my friends
							     with my boy friend / girl friend
            
            	what are you doing this weekend?
	    				I should go to another city this weekend
            				I am going to meet with my friends this weekend
					
            	what music do you like?
                                    	I like Rock music
            
            	Are you good at English?
                                    	yes, I'm quite good at English
                                    	no, I'm bad at English
                                    	I'm trying to learn English
                                    	I can speak English fluently
            	What is your job?
                                    	my job is ... 
                                    	I am a/an Architect/Teacher/Engineer
                                    	I am a Boss / I have my own shop/school/factory
      
            	what kind of films do you like?
            	what films do you like?                         films = movies
                                    	I like action, science fiction films
            
            	how do you get to places?
                                    	I get to places by car
                                                    	by private jet
                                                    	by foot, by walking
           	where do you go on holiday?
                                   	I go on holiday to Antalya
            
            	how often do you play sports?
                                    	I play football once a day, on Sundays, at weekends
            
            	do you often go shopping?
                                    	yes, I often go shopping as soon as possible - evet, mümkün olduğunca sık alışverişe çıkarım
                                    	no, I go shopping once a month   - hayır, ayda bir kez alışverişe çıkarım
            
            	what have you got in your kitchen/bedroom/bathroom?
                                    	I have got fridge, oven, cupboard, spoon, knife, table in my kitchen
                                    	I have got bed, wardrobe, mirror, table, carpet in my bedroom
                                    	I have got toothbrush, soup, slipper in my bathroom
            	what is your favorite food?
                                    	my favorite food is pizza, burger, fried potatoes, kebab, rice
                                    
            	what is your favorite colour?
                                    	my favorite colour is red and black
            
            	what restaurants do you like?
                                    	I like fast-food and Italian restaurant
            
            	what is your favorite restaurant?
                                    	My favorite restaurant is fast food restaurant
            
            	how often do you go out?
                                    	I go out four times a week
                                    	I go out twice a week
            	when do you use a car?
                                    	I use the car every morning and evening
                                    	I cannot use a car because I have no driving license
            
            	how often do you drive your car?
                                    	I use my car when I need to get a place, maybe ten times a week
            
            	where do you go shopping?
                                    	I go shopping to the mall or sometimes online 

            	when do you go shopping?
                                    	I go shopping at the weekend
                                    	I don't go shopping, because I buy things online

            	what time does your English lesson start?
                                    	My English lesson starts at two in the afternoon
            
            	when do you use the internet?
                                    	I use the internet at the weekend
            
            	how often do you use the internet?
                                    	I use the internet every day
                                    	I don't use internet much
            
            	what is your husband/wife/boyfriend/girlfriend's name?
                                    	my husband/wife/boyfriend/girlfriend's name is ...
            
            	what town do you live in?
                                    	I live in Antalya 
                                    	I live in Ankara, but I study in İstanbul
            
            	what do you eat for breakfast?
                                    	I eat egg, cheese, bread for breakfast
            
            	how big is your house or flat?
                                    	my flat is quite big, there are 3 rooms and one kitchen
            
            	what music do you like?
                                    	I like rap/rock music
            
            	what kind of music do you like?
                                    	I like rock music
            
            	how old are you?
                                    	I am nineteen
            
            	what is your favorite day of the week?
                                    	my favorite day is Sunday, because I can rest all day
      
            	what time do you get up in the morning?
                                    	I get up at seven in the morning
            
	    	when do you start the day?
                                    	at half past seven in the morning
            
	   	how do you start the day?
                                    	I start the day sometimes good and bad  
            
           	how many brothers and sisters do you have?
                                    	I have one brother
            
            	who is your best friend?
                                    	my best friend is ABC
                                    	s/he studies
                                    	I walk around with her/him
            
	    	how many people in your family?
                                    	there are five people in my family
            
            	what weather do you like?
                                    	I like sunny weather, but sometimes rainy
            
            	what languages do you speak?
                                    	I speak Turkish, English
            
            	what do you do at the weekend?
                                    	I meet with my frinds at the weekend
                                    	I go out for English Course, Shopping Mall
            
	   	what subjects do you like at school?
                                    	I like Maths, English
            
            	how do you go/travel to school/work?
                                    	I go to school by bus
						       by walking
                                        	           
		Who did you look up to as a child?

		What is your favourite hobby?


---> Links
https://skillslelo.com/self-introduction-how-to-introduce-yourself/




STUDENTS' EXTRA NOTES
            I study at Fine Arts Secondary School in Aksaray
            I started to study in Mechanical Engineering but I postponed to study for a while in Rize 
            I have a cat, a bird at home
            I have one brother/sister
            I usually spend my free time with my friends to go out
            I like reading books and I watch series or movies
            I sometimes walk around and play online games with my phone 
            I have a course from eight to seven, I arrive at there by bus/car
            I go to the course at the weekend (on saturday and sunday)
            I got bored of the school and teachers
            I want to work --> in a factory in my future
                           --> as a music teacher in my future or I want to study at Conservatory. 
                           --> as a lawyer or a psychologist in my future
                           --> as a military engineer in my future
			   
			   

INTERVIEW SAMPLES
	Sample 1:
		Hi, my name is A H. 
		I am a recent graduate from D University where I completed my bachelors in English Literature. 
		I was the editor of the yearly periodical at A Company and also completed two internships at C and B. 
		I was excited to find this position as an Assistant Editor at your organisation and I believe I would be a great fit for this role.

	Sample 2:
		Hello, as you already know that my name is A S, I am from Ankara, but born and raised in Adana. 
		I reside in Antalya and have a family of 4. To pursue my passion for teaching, I went on to pursue BEl Ed from the University of D. 
		I began my career by interning as an Assistant Teacher in HPJ Public School, Ashok Vihar, during the final year of my BEl Ed program. 
		In August 2019, I started working as an Elementary Teacher with Nancy Public School. 
		Meanwhile, I also completed a diploma in Child Pedagogy that helped me in performing my job proficiently. 
		Talking about my interests and hobbies, I am keen to dance. 
		It is therapeutic to me as it helps me in releasing all my stress in seconds! I also like to catch up on reading in my free time. 
	
	Sample 3:
		“Good morning, my name is Nirag Vashi, and I am a secondary education student at Western Michigan University with a focus in science. 
		I grew up in a family of teachers and know that being a high school science teacher is my calling. 
		My passion for helping others has been evident in my involvement in Kalamazoo Public Schools 
		and as a camp counselor for the last three years. 
		Through those experiences I have learned to interact with a diverse group of people, which has increased my ability to relate to others. 
		I have also had the opportunity 
		to create lessons for the campers that focused on life skills like teamwork, communication, and time management.  
		Having been a teacher yourself, what things should I be doing now to prepare for my internship search?”

	Sample 4:
		“Hello, I am Alexandra Hill, and I will be completing my bachelor’s degree in finance from Western Michigan University in August.
		I have worked on a wide variety of projects that have allowed me to put what I’ve learned in the classroom into use in a practical sense.
		Last year, I was part of a new course where the students managed $500,000 for the Western Annual Fund 
		and it was really exciting to see the portfolio grow.
		I pride myself on being detail-oriented, analytical, and driven.
		I understand that you are searching for a new investment advisor 
		and I believe these qualities would benefit your company’s goal to increase your client base 
		while continuing to provide sound investment advice.”
		




---> Different Type Speaking Topics for B1 Students
		what do you want to be in your future?
		what is your dream for your future?
		what field do you want to improve yourself? 
		what field in the university do you want to study?                           field = department = area
      
		what do you think about ...
		           your city
                                country
                                future
                                life
                                personality
                                friends
                                teachers
                                school
                                work
                                    
		do you have any plan about your life?
		what causes the expansion of big cities?
		what activities do you like to do in your free time?
		how much time you spend to study / work?
		how often do you use smart phone or computer?
		what do you do on your smartphone or computer?
		can you drive a car – do you have a driving license
		what country do you want to travel 
		have you ever travelled abroad?
		have you ever travelled another city?
		which countries/cities have you travelled?            - which one is better
		do you think that your family expects anything from you about your future?
		generally, how is your communication with people?      
		If you could go anywhere in the world, where would it be?
		If you could only eat one type of food for the rest of your life, what would it be?
		Do you have any hidden talents?
		What is your favourite childhood memory?
		What is the biggest risk you've taken?
			the biggest risk I have taken is not to put unbreakable glass onto my phone screen
		What is the bravest thing you've ever done?
		If you could only watch one movie or television show for the rest of your life, what would it be?
		Describe your ideal day.
		What do you want people to remember about you?
		What is your favourite animal and why?
		Do you collect anything?
		Who is your most listened to artist?
		What is the most unusual pet you've had?
		What is the first concert you ever attended?
		What is your favourite type of cuisine?
		What is your favourite season and why?
		What movie have you seen the most times?
		What is your favourite ice cream flavour?
		If you could go back in time for a day, what day would you go to?
		What is one thing you've learned that you wish you could tell your younger self?
		What is your favourite place in the world?
		What is the next vacation you have planned?
		How many siblings do you have?
		What motivates you in your professional life?
		Do you have any long-term career goals?
		What was your biggest workplace accomplishment?
		What is your dream job?
		Where do you see yourself in five years?
		
		What are you most passionate about?
		What type of industry books, resources or materials are you currently reading?
		What job did you want as a kid?
				
		What extracurricular activities did you participate in as a child?
		What is one trait you would improve about yourself?
		Can you play any musical instruments?
		Can you speak any other languages?
		If someone paid you to write a blog or book about anything, what would it be about?
		What was your favourite subject in school?
		What was your first job?
			I was 17 when I got my first job at a fast-food restaurant, 
				which helped me develop leadership, communication and listening skills.
		Who inspires you the most and why?
		What is your favourite workplace memory?
		
		Do you enjoy being on your own or with others during your free time?
		Tell me about a hobby you'd like to take up
		What do you usually do at weekends?
		Do you enjoy team sports or group activities? (Why?)
		What is father's job?
		What did you do this year?
				I studied all the year
		Where will you probably go next year?
				I will probably go to Russia next year, but It is just a dream 
		Which is better for a family holiday: a hotel or camping? (Why?)
		Which is easier: booking a holiday online or through a travel agent? (Why?)
		Why do people like to travel abroad?
				
		What are the main things to consider when you pack your holiday suitcase?
		What is your favorite season and why?
		Do you think it is important to earn a lot of money? (Why? / Why not?)
		How often do you watch a film on telly?
		How was the first day in your new job?
		If you had got enough money, What were you going to buy at first?
		Where do you like to walk in your neighborhood and why?
		Have you ever had a pet?
		What do you do (as an activity) to relax?
		How heavy is the piece of cheese?
		What do you want to do in the future?
		What is something you are good at doing?
		What are your strengths?

	



---> QUESTIONS
1. Background and Interest:
		Where are you from and how has it had an impact on who you are?
    		What are your hobbies and interests?  Why do you enjoy these things?
    		What is exciting about your academic career? Focus on last three years.

2. Values and Beliefs:
		What character traits do your friends, family, and colleagues count on you for? 
    		What are the top three things you value most? Why?
    		What core beliefs do you live by? Why are these things important to you?

3. Passions, Dreams, and Aspirations:
		What is the biggest dream you have for yourself? Why?
    		What are you currently doing to achieve your dream?
    		What are your passions and aspirations?

4. Skills and Achievements:
		What achievements are you most proud of?
    		How and when did they happen?
    		What do people count on you for most?
    		What skills and strengths do you bring to the table when working on teams
    		What type of work do you do now?
    
    


---> MOTIVATION LETTER EXAMPLE FOR JOB APPLICATION
            To whom it may concern;

            I am writing to express my interest regarding the position of Paint shop/Production Engineer (A City) (12345) published on DD.MM.YYYY

            I have a passionate dream of working at your company for a long time and I would like to express my excitement at this opportunity.

            I'm the youngest child of a family from A. My father worked with you for 30 years and retired in 2019. 
            I have much willingness about being a part of M-B culture and values which I see through family trips and various activities.
            I believe that there is no better place to acquire this kind of professional work culture.

            I graduated from A University, Department of Mechanical Engineering in 2021. 
            During my university life, I participated in various projects and activities.   
            I have improved myself socially on teamwork by working at the ABC Club and the a sport team. 
            During my education, I completed my internship and candidate engineering at private companies such as A Company and B Company. 

            During my exp, 
            I improved my skills in programs such as analytical thinking, time and business management, organization, as well as SolidWorks and AutoCAD. 
            During my internship at A Company, 
            I have gained experience about subjects such as Group Truck Mixer, wet paint application, positive pressurization, storage and mixing; 
            Especially, 
            I have developed an intense knowledge from my exp 
	    			about many processes such as paint types, type, flash-off times, drying temperatures etc. drying times.

            In V Company, where I am currently working, our products from manufacturing are sent to A City for Cataphoresis Coating (KTL). 
            During this period, I am charge of quality control and keep being in communication and consultancy.

            I hope to be given a chance for this position, as I am confident person that is capable of meeting 
            and even exceeding your expectations with the help of my experience and communication skills.

            Thank you for considering my application
            Yours truly
            E.G



---> List of Weaknesses: 10 Things To Say in an Interview               Zayıf Yönlerin Listesi: Bir Röportajda Söylenecek 10 Şey
            01. I sometimes focus too much on the details of a project
                        Bazen bir projenin ayrıntılarına çok fazla odaklanırım
                “My greatest weakness is that I sometimes focus too much on the details of a project and spend too much time analyzing the finer points.
                 "En büyük zayıflığım, bazen bir projenin ayrıntılarına çok fazla odaklanmam ve ince noktaları analiz etmek için çok fazla zaman harcamamdır.
                 I’ve been striving to improve in this area by checking in with myself at regular intervals and giving myself a chance to refocusing on the bigger picture.
                 Düzenli aralıklarla kendimle görüşerek ve kendime büyük resme yeniden odaklanma şansı vererek bu alanda gelişmeye çalışıyorum.
                 That way I can still ensure quality without getting so caught up in the details that it affects my productivity or the team’s ability to meet the deadline.”
                 Bu şekilde, verimliliğimi veya ekibin son teslim tarihini karşılama yeteneğini etkileyecek kadar ayrıntılara takılmadan kaliteyi garanti edebilirim."
                 
                 
            02. I sometimes have a hard time letting go of a project.
                        Bazen bir projeden vazgeçmekte zorlanıyorum.
                “My greatest weakness is that I sometimes have a hard time letting go of a project.
                        “En büyük zayıflığım, bazen bir projeden vazgeçmekte zorlanmam.        
                I’m the biggest critic of my own work. I can always find something that needs to be improved or changed. 
                        Kendi işimin en büyük eleştirmeniyim. Her zaman iyileştirilmesi veya değiştirilmesi gereken bir şey bulabilirim.
                To help myself improve in this area, I give myself deadlines for revisions.
                        Bu alanda kendimi geliştirmek için kendime revizyonlar için son tarihler veriyorum.
                This helps ensure that I’m not making changes at the last minute.”
                        Bu, son dakikada değişiklik yapmamamı sağlıyor." 
                 
                 

            03. I sometimes have trouble saying ‘no’
                        Bazen 'hayır' demekte zorlanıyorum
                “My greatest weakness is that I sometimes have trouble saying ‘no’ to requests and end up taking on more than I can handle.
                        "En büyük zayıflığım, bazen isteklere 'hayır' demekte zorlanmam ve sonunda kaldırabileceğimden fazlasını üstlenmemdir.
                In the past, this has led me to feel stressed or burnt out. 
                        Geçmişte, bu beni stresli veya tükenmiş hissetmeme neden oldu.
                To help myself improve in this area, I use a project management app
                        Bu alanda kendimi geliştirmek için bir proje yönetimi uygulaması kullanıyorum
                so I can visualize how much work I have at any given moment and know whether or not I have the bandwidth to take on more.”
                        böylece herhangi bir anda ne kadar işim olduğunu görselleştirebilir 
					ve daha fazlasını üstlenecek bant genişliğine sahip olup olmadığımı öğrenebilirim.” 



            04. I get impatient when projects run past the deadline.
                        Projeler son teslim tarihini geçtiğinde sabırsızlanırım.
                “My greatest weakness is that I get impatient when projects run past the deadline.
                        “En büyük zayıflığım, projeler son teslim tarihini geçtiğinde sabırsız olmam.
                I’m a stickler for due dates and get uncomfortable when work is not completed on time.
                        Teslim tarihleri konusunda titizimdir ve işler zamanında tamamlanmadığında rahatsız olurum.
                To avoid this, I’ve started being more proactive
                        Bundan kaçınmak için daha proaktif olmaya başladım
                and paying attention to how I’m reacting to make sure I’m being motivational and helping foster efficiency.”
                        ve motive olduğumdan ve verimliliği artırmaya yardımcı olduğumdan emin olmak için nasıl tepki verdiğime dikkat ediyorum." 



            05. I could use more experience in…
                        Daha fazla deneyim kullanabilirim…
                        A few common areas people need experience in include:
                                    İnsanların deneyime ihtiyaç duyduğu birkaç ortak alan şunları içerir:
                                        Verbal communication                        Sözel İletişim
                                        Written communication                       Yazılı İletişim
                                        Team leadership                             Takım Liderliği
                                        Interpreting analytics                      Analitiği yorumlama
                                        Delegating tasks                            Görevleri devretme
                                        Providing constructive criticism            Yapıcı eleştiri sağlamak
                                        Specific programs (i.e. “I would like to improve my PowerPoint presentation skills.”)
                                                    Belirli programlar (yani, “PowerPoint sunum becerilerimi geliştirmek istiyorum.”) 



            6. I sometimes lack confidence.
                        Bazen özgüven eksikliği yaşıyorum.
               “In the past, I have sometimes struggled with confidence.
                        “Geçmişte, bazen güvenle mücadele ettim.
               It has been helpful for me to keep a running document of the impact I have made on my team 
                        Ekibimde yarattığım etkinin devam eden bir belgesini tutmak benim için yardımcı oldu
               and at my organization to better understand why I should be confident about the skills and unique talents I bring to the table.
                        ve organizasyonumda, masaya getirdiğim beceriler ve benzersiz yetenekler konusunda neden kendime güvenmem gerektiğini daha iyi anlamak için.
               I have also made it a point to voice my ideas and opinions during meetings when I feel they are appropriate and will add value to the conversation. 
                        Ayrıca, uygun olduğunu ve sohbete değer katacağını düşündüğümde toplantılar sırasında fikirlerimi ve görüşlerimi dile getirmeyi de ihmal etmedim.
               Because of this, our team ended up adopting my idea for a new financing process, which resulted in a 10% decrease in time taken to plan our annual budget.”
                   Bu nedenle, ekibimiz yeni bir finansman süreci fikrimi benimsedi ve bu da yıllık bütçemizi planlamak için harcanan sürede %10'luk bir azalmayla sonuçlandı." 


            7. I can have trouble asking for help.    
                        Yardım istemekte zorlanabilirim.
               “Because I am independent and enjoy working quickly, it has been difficult for me to ask for help when I need it. 
                        “Bağımsız olduğum ve hızlı çalışmayı sevdiğim için, ihtiyacım olduğunda yardım istemek benim için zor oldu.
               I have learned that it is much more beneficial both for me 
                        Hem benim için çok daha faydalı olduğunu öğrendim
               and the business to reach out when I do not understand something or feel burned out with my workload.
                        ve bir şeyi anlamadığımda veya iş yükümden dolayı tükenmiş hissettiğimde ulaşmam gereken iş.
               I also understand that many experts around me have specific knowledge and skills that can make my work better. 
                        Ayrıca çevremdeki birçok uzmanın işimi daha iyi hale getirebilecek belirli bilgi ve becerilere sahip olduğunu da anlıyorum.               
               While I am still working on it, I have been able to produce more high-quality work as a result of getting help from those around me.”
                        Halen üzerinde çalışırken etrafımdakilerden de yardım alarak daha kaliteli işler çıkarabildim.” 


            8. It has been difficult for me to work with certain personalities.
                        Bazı kişiliklerle çalışmak benim için zor oldu.
               “In the past, I have found it difficult to work with aggressive personality types.
                        “Geçmişte agresif kişilik tipleriyle çalışmakta zorlandım.                        
               While I understand diversity in personalities makes a business strong, 
                        Kişiliklerdeki çeşitliliğin bir işi güçlü kıldığını anlasam da,               
               I tend to quiet my own ideas and opinions around louder colleagues.
                        kendi fikirlerimi ve görüşlerimi daha yüksek sesli meslektaşlarım etrafında susturma eğilimindeyim.               
               To combat this, I have made it a point to spend more time with colleagues I feel uncomfortable working with. 
                        Bununla mücadele etmek için, birlikte çalışmaktan rahatsız olduğum meslektaşlarımla daha fazla zaman geçirmeye özen gösterdim.
               By learning more about them, their communication style and motivations, 
                        Onlar hakkında, iletişim tarzları ve motivasyonları hakkında daha fazla bilgi edinerek,
               I am better able to collaborate with these personality types so that we both equally contribute our strengths and skills.”
                        Bu kişilik tipleriyle daha iyi işbirliği yapabilirim, böylece ikimiz de güçlerimize ve becerilerimize eşit şekilde katkıda bulunabiliriz.” 
                
                

            9. It can be difficult for me to maintain a healthy work/life balance.
                        Sağlıklı bir iş/yaşam dengesi kurmak benim için zor olabilir.
               “Because I truly love my work and have ambitious career goals,
                        “İşimi gerçekten sevdiğim ve iddialı kariyer hedeflerim olduğu için,
                it can be difficult for me to keep a healthy balance between work and my personal life. 
                        iş ve özel hayatım arasında sağlıklı bir denge kurmak benim için zor olabilir.
                I have seen a negative impact on my motivation and focus when I ignore my personal needs.
                        Kişisel ihtiyaçlarımı göz ardı ettiğimde motivasyonum ve odaklanmam üzerinde olumsuz bir etki gördüm.
                As a result, I have made it a point to focus on creating space in my schedule to focus on volunteering and spending time with my family. 
                        Sonuç olarak, gönüllü olmaya ve ailemle vakit geçirmeye odaklanmak için programımda alan yaratmaya odaklanmayı bir noktaya getirdim.
                Taking small actions like putting my phone on silent during dinnertime is helpful.
                        Akşam yemeği sırasında telefonumu sessize almak gibi küçük adımlar atmak yardımcı olur.
                When I maintain a good work/life balance, I have found my output is more qualitative, 
                        İyi bir iş/yaşam dengesi kurduğumda, çıktımın daha kaliteli olduğunu gördüm,
                I can get more work done and I feel excited about coming to work in the morning.”
                        Daha fazla iş yapabilirim ve sabah işe gelmenin heyecanını yaşıyorum.” 



            10. I have been uncomfortable working with ambiguity.
                        Belirsizlikle çalışmaktan rahatsız oldum.
                “In my last position as a marketing intern, I found that my supervisor gave very specific instructions regarding my responsibilities.
                        “Pazarlama stajyeri olarak son pozisyonumda, amirimin sorumluluklarım hakkında çok özel talimatlar verdiğini gördüm.                        
                Because I became familiar with having a strong direction, I tend to be unsure when approaching an ambiguous assignment or goal.
                        Güçlü bir yöne sahip olmaya alıştığım için, belirsiz bir göreve veya hedefe yaklaşırken emin olmama eğilimindeyim.
                It is a goal of mine to become not only comfortable but successful working with ambiguity. 
                        Sadece rahat olmak değil, aynı zamanda muğlaklıkla başarılı bir şekilde çalışmak benim hedefimdir.
                To do so, I have created a personal framework for times
                        Bunu yapmak için, zamanlar için kişisel bir çerçeve oluşturdum.
                when I feel overwhelmed or confused by an ambiguous task including conducting structured research and asking subject matter experts for advice.
                Yapılandırılmış araştırma yapmak ve konu uzmanlarından tavsiye istemek de dahil olmak üzere belirsiz bir görevden bunalmış veya kafam karışmış hissettiğimde.
                Doing so has helped me thrive when working on ambiguous tasks or when working towards less specific or defined goals.”
                        Bunu yapmak, belirsiz görevler üzerinde çalışırken veya daha az spesifik veya tanımlanmış hedeflere doğru çalışırken gelişmeme yardımcı oldu.” 




Company Questions
1--How have you gone over and above for a customer?
            I often look for opportunities to go over and above when it comes to customer service. 
            One memorable time was when a senior man was struggling to get his bags into the resort. 
            I saw him in front of the resort. I ran and greeted him, asking if I could assist. 
            After that, i had seen him a few times at the resort bar where i worked. 
            I became friends with his family and friends. 
            On the last day of his holiday, He was so thankful that he ended up going to my manager that day to compliment my kindness

2--How would you deal with an irate customer?
            I know sometimes customers may be upset or unhappy with their experience with a particular product or service 
            and will contact the company to let them know. 
            I would acknowledge their feelings and concerns, and inform them that I would be more than happy to assist them with resolving the problem. 
            After exhausting all available resources, 
            if I could not rectify the situation, 
            I would let the customer know that I can put them in touch with a supervisor who can help them if necessary.

3--Name 3 qualities about yourself that would make you perfect for the job?
            I am passionate about my work.
            I am ambitious and driven.
            I am highly organized.
            I'm a people-person.
            I'm a natural leader.
            I am a problem solver and results-oriented
            I am an excellent communicator.

4---What is going to be the most challenging part of this job?
            When buyers ask a question i cannot answer. 
            This is a chance for me as the face of Jet2 to direct the customer down the right path, or, if possible, retrieve the information myself. 
            Even without a concreate answer, a question should never be met with a shrug of the shoulders.

5---What experience do you have in assisting customers?
            I never pretend to know an answer. 
            If I'm unsure how to help a customer, I try to find out for the customer and take steps for a solution. 
            Honestly, I worked for many years in tourism. 
            So, I helped many people in resorts for easy or difficult situations 
            and if I didn't know an answer, I reached out to my co-workers or my supervisors for assistance. 
            In brief, I have self-confidence and problem-solving skills.

6--What would you do if a passenger told you they had paid for private transport to their resort and it hadn't shown up?
            I try to do everything in my power to ensure to find what has happened to the customers transport and assist them in solving the problem. 
            If I can't solve this, I will find either a senior or other service who can.

7---What would you do if a passenger told you they had paid for private transport to their hotel but you found out they hadn't?

            A policy and procedure would be in place for this situation 
            but I would do my best to find if something has gone wrong and assist the customer to have a nice holiday.

8---Why did you apply specifically for Jet2?
            I was impressed by the quality of service the tour operator offers and I already know that it has an excellent reputation. 
            Your customer service standards are high and the quality of training given to holiday reps is exceptional. 
            Having spoken to some of your existing employees, all of them were very happy in their work and stated that you are a very good employer. 
            You are an exciting tour operator that has achieved much to date 
            and I like the fact that you are always looking for innovative ways to improve and develop. 
            I can see your achievements. I would like to work for a tour operator that cares about its customers, which you do. 
            If the customer is happy and their experience of staying with you is a good one, they are likely to come back again. 
            I would love to be a part of this team and believe the qualities. 
            I have will help it to continue to move forward and stay ahead of its competitors.

9---Why did you apply for this job?
            The Jet2 reputation is certainly a factor. 
            I would be proud to work for a company with such an impressive customer service reputation in the industry. 
            And I'm also confident that my experience in tourism would be fitting for this role 
            because (examples of how your experience would benefit you in this specific role).
      



      
