---> Different Type Speaking Topics for Students
      what do you want to be in your future
      what is your dream for your future?
      what field do you want to improve yourself? 
      what field in the university do you want to study?                           field = department
      
      what do you think about ...
			           your city
                                   country
                                   future
                                   life
                                   personality
                                   friends
                                   teachers
                                   school
                                   work
                                    
      do you have any plan about your life?
      what causes the expansion of big cities?
      
      what activities do you like to do in your free time?
      how much time you spend to study / work?
      how often do you use smart phone or computer?
      what do you do on your smartphone or computer?
      can you drive a car – do you have a driving license
      what country do you want to travel 
      have you ever travelled abroad?
      have you ever travelled another city?
      which countries/cities have you travelled?            - which one is better
      do you think that your family expects anything from you about your future?
      generally, how is your communication with people?      
      
      
      
---> Reading - Translation Examples about Global Issues

Clean Water
      Water is a basic substance required for all living organisms. Without it, human health inevitably fails. 
              Su, tüm canlı organizmalar için gerekli olan temel bir maddedir. Onsuz, insan sağlığı kaçınılmaz olarak başarısız olur.
      According to a report by the United Nations, there is enough fresh water on the planet for everyone. 
              Birleşmiş Milletler'in bir raporuna göre, gezegende herkese yetecek kadar tatlı su var.
      Unfortunately, 844 million people lack access to it, and one of three people do not have access to a toilet. 
              Ne yazık ki, 844 milyon insan buna erişemiyor ve üç kişiden birinin tuvalete erişimi yok.
      Millions perish daily from unhygienic diseases due to inadequate water and sanitation. 
              Yetersiz su ve sağlık önlemleri nedeniyle hijyenik olmayan hastalıklardan her gün milyonlarca insan ölüyor.
      Governments are making efforts to assist those in need but are hindered by declining economics and disorganized infrastructures.
              Hükümetler, ihtiyacı olanlara yardım etmek için çaba sarf ediyor, ancak azalan ekonomi ve düzensiz altyapılar tarafından engelleniyor. 
      
      
Food Security
      Like water, food helps people lead healthy lives. Globally, 12.9 percent of the population is undernourished. 
              Su gibi, yemek de insanların sağlıklı yaşam sürmesine yardımcı olur. Küresel olarak, nüfusun yüzde 12,9'u yetersiz besleniyor.
      Developing countries struggle with providing an adequate food supply to their people; 
              Gelişen ülkeler, halklarına yeterli gıda arzını sağlamakta mücadele ediyor;    
      as a result, nearly 795 million people do not have enough food to meet their nutritional needs.
              Sonuç olarak, yaklaşık 795 milyon insan beslenme ihtiyaçlarını karşılamak için yeterli gıdaya sahip değil.
      The World Food Programme, a humanitarian effort established by the U.N. to combat hunger and food security, 
              Açlık ve gıda güvenliği ile mücadele amacıyla B.M. tarafından kurulan insani bir çaba olan Dünya Gıda Programı,
      is working to bring relief to developing countries, currently assisting more than 80 countries every year.
              gelişmekte olan ülkelere yardım/hafifletme/rahatlatma getirmek için çalışıyor ve şu anda her yıl 80'den fazla ülkeye yardım ediyor. 

Health
      Universal health is a growing concern. 
                  Evrensel sağlık, büyüyen bir endişedir.
      Unfortunately, diseases like HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, smallpox and polio are still claiming the lives of thousands of people worldwide, 
                  Ne yazık ki, HIV/AIDS, sıtma, tüberküloz, çiçek hastalığı ve çocuk felci gibi hastalıklar halen dünya çapında binlerce insanın hayatına mal oluyor.
      mostly in developing nations. 
                  çoğunlukla gelişmekte olan ülkelerde.
      The World Health Organization is a global initiative that provides antibiotics and vaccinations all over the world. 
                  Dünya Sağlık Örgütü, tüm dünyada antibiyotik ve aşı sağlayan küresel bir girişimdir.
      Since its inception, polio cases have declined by 99 percent, tuberculosis treatment has saved more than 37 million people, 
                  Başlangıcından beri, çocuk felci vakaları yüzde 99 kadar azaldı, tüberküloz tedavisi 37 milyondan fazla insanı kurtardı,   
      and in 2016, zero cases of Ebola were reported in West Africa.
                  ve 2016'da Batı Afrika'da sıfır Ebola vakası bildirildi. 


Human Rights
              Every person deserves basic rights, regardless of their race, sex or ethnicity. 
              In 1948, the United Nations created the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which today is commonly known as the International Human Rights Law. 
              This declaration promotes and protects human rights civilly, economically, politically and socially.

Maternal Health
              Maternal health is a global human rights issue, making it one of the key examples of global issues. 
              There are an estimated 830 pregnancy-related deaths each day. This is mainly due to lack of maternal care. 
              Women die from infections, postpartum bleeding, blood clots and other conditions. 
              The United Nations Population Fund develops relationships with governments around the world to train healthcare professionals 
              to provide expert maternal care to expecting mothers.

Girls’ Access to Education
              Girls deserve the right to learn. 
              Currently, 98 million girls do not attend school due to barriers like poverty, gender bias, governmental conflict, 
              safety concerns and a lack of educators, classrooms and curriculums. 
              Global Citizen reported that schools are sometimes hours away from where children live, making it unsafe for them to travel alone. 
              Let Girls Learn is a U.S. global strategy targeting an increase in safe access to education for girls and educators. 
              Funds are directed towards curriculums to help girls read and write.

Digital Access
              	We live in a digital age where we can find all the help we need online. 
			ihtiyacımız olan tüm yardımı çevrimiçi olarak bulabileceğimiz dijital bir çağda yaşıyoruz.
		This luxury is absent in many countries, as more than four billion people do not have access to the internet. 
              		Dört milyardan fazla insanın internete erişimi olmadığı için bu lüks pek çok ülkede yok
	      	Internet connectivity would assist those living in developing countries with finding help and aid. 
			İnternet bağlantısı, gelişmekte olan ülkelerde yaşayanlara yardım ve yardım bulma konusunda yardımcı olacaktır.
		With online options, people in need can contact international aid programs to get assistance faster.
	              Çevrimiçi seçeneklerle, ihtiyaç sahipleri daha hızlı yardım almak için uluslararası yardım programlarıyla iletişime geçebilir. 
	       

Foreign Aid Budgets
              The world would like to believe it does enough for the poor, but sadly this is not true. 
              In the U.S., the International Affairs Budget only makes up 1 percent of the federal budget. 
              Increasing the foreign aid budget is actually beneficial to the American economy. 
              It helps create more jobs in the U.S. and builds wealth in developing countries.

Women’s Rights
              Women’s rights are human rights. Women suffer discrimination in many areas: laws, the workforce and gender-based stereotypes and social practices. 
              The first conference on global feminism was held in Nairobi in 1985 and involved more than 15,000 non-governmental organizations, 
              encouraging 157 governments to adopt strategies geared towards equality, development and peace for women.

Refugees
              Refugees are people who have been forced to flee their homeland due to war, conflict and abuse. 
              Foreign countries have granted them asylum for thousands of years. 
              Refugees are sometimes denied entry into other countries, leaving them without basic human rights such as food, healthcare, education and jobs. 
              Children make up the largest percentage of refugees. 
              The U.N. Refugee Agency currently provides aid and safekeeping to 59 million refugees.

Electric Car
            Old electric cars are a raw material of the future.
            Car Sales have, generally speaking, plunged during the coronavirus epidemic. But there has been one bright spot. 
            Electric vehicles (EVs) continue to grow in popularity. 
            According to IHs Markit, a research firm, almost 2.5m battery-electric and plug-in-hybrid cars were sold around the world in 2020—and 
            the company expects that number to grow by 70% this year. 
            BloombergNEF, another researcher, reckons that by 2030 some 8% of the 1.4bn cars on the road will be electric, rising to more than 30% by 2040. 
            It is not, moreover, just a matter of cars. There will also be electric lorries, buses, motorbikes, bicycles, scooters, ships and maybe even aircraft. 
            And, when all of these machines come to the ends of their useful lives, they will need to be recycled.

Crypocurrency

Climate Change

Artificial Intelligence

Social Media

Online Education

Nuclear Power

Space Discovery

Master Degree

Genetics

Overpopulation

Sea Pollution

Air Pollution






---> An Interviewer And An Interviewee
Interviewer: Welcome to ABC Controls, David. I am Tom.
Interviewee: Hello, it's nice to meet you.
Interviewer: Nice to meet you too, how are you doing today?
Interviewee: I am doing well, and yourself?
Interviewer: Great, thanks. I hope we didn't keep you waiting for long?
Interviewee: No, I had the chance to talk to one of your engineers while waiting.
Interviewer: That's good. David, shall we start?
Interviewee: Yeah, sure.
Interviewer: First of all, let me introduce myself. I am the manager of our engineering department here and we have an open position, 
             so we have been interviewing applicants to fill the position as quickly as possible.
Interviewee: Yes sir, I read about the position on your website, and I think I am a good fit.
Interviewer: We currently have several ongoing projects and the team is working hard. We are hoping to keep busy for a long time.
Interviewee: What are the essential qualifications required for the position?
Interviewer: This is an entry-level engineering position, we do provide a lot of training here. 
             But we do require that you have at least a bachelors degree in computer engineering. Previous experience in the field is a plus. 
Interviewee: What kind of experience would you count as a work in the field?
Interviewer: Even though we provide training, 
             it would be great if you had some hands-on programming experience, knowledge of database systems or skills on developing applications.
Interviewee: My final school project was actually developing a mobile application, so I am fairly competent in developing mobile and web applications.
Interviewer: That's good to hear, which school did you graduate from?
Interviewee: I was a student at DEF University, and I graduated with a bachelor degree in computer science. 
             I worked as a computer lab tutor in school for about 2 years. 
             Guiding students through their projects helped me get experience in several programming languages. 
Interviewer: What are you looking for in a job?
Interviewee: The job should definitely help me grow in my career. I will be happy to learn and grow as I work in a passionate company like yours.
Interviewer: You are right. There is plenty of room for advancement in our company. What are your strengths? Why should I hire you?
Interviewee: I am a diligent person and a fast learner. I am very eager to learn. My friends also find me very easy to work with.
Interviewer: Very well. Now, do you mind working overtime?
Interviewee: No, I do not.
Interviewer: Because, sometimes we get overwhelmed with heavy workload.
Interviewee: I understand that's the nature of the job. When I was going to school, 
             I took quite a few courses each semester while working at least twenty hours every week. 
             And, I handled that situation very well.
Interviewer: Do you have any questions for me?
Interviewee: No, I think I have a pretty good understanding of the requirements. 
             I believe that I can handle it with ease, and the fact that you provide all the training sounds excellent. I hope to have the opportunity to work for you.
Interviewer: David, It is nice to meet you. I can tell that you are a good candidate. Expect to hear from us within a week or so about the job.
Interviewee: Nice meeting you too. Thank you for your time.
Interviewer: Thank you for coming.



