---> TYPES OF ADVERB
Adverbs of time
Adverbs of place
Adverbs of manner
Adverbs of degree
Adverbs of frequency

Adverb Placement
subject + adverb + verb + object                : We often visit museums.
subject + verb + object + adverb                : She speaks English well.
subject + verb + preposition + object + adverb
    She looked at me suspiciously.
    She looked suspiciously at me.
subject + verb + adverb + preposition + object + adverb   : She looked suspiciously at everybody in the room.



---> ADVERBS OF TIME --- WHEN?
    before -- after, today, tomorrow, yesterday, already, now = right now, soon, 
    since -- for, tonight, always, until, recently, just, immediately, fortnightly
    still, eventually, firstly, secondly, finally, when, for a while, in a while, 
    then, late, lately, later, last -- next, previously, quarterly
    
    - My aunt went to our house yesterday.
    - I'm going to tidy my room tomorrow.
    - He would do many more before the war was over.
    - I've never thought about it before.
    - I will call you later.
    - We are just getting started
    - I have to leave now.
    - I saw that movie last year.
    - He hesitated before answering.
    - They wouldn't arrive until after 6:00 at the earliest.
    - I saw something today that bothered me.
    - I don't have time for explanations today.
    - Though I could always wait until tomorrow, after Darkyn deals with you.
    - I've already told her, but she won't listen to me either.
    - She had to get a car as soon as possible.
    - We soon forget them.
    - You have been in Paris recently, I believe?
    - The wound closed immediately.
    - He died suddenly, immediately after the death of his wife
    
    Order of adverbs of time
        1: how long, 2: how often, 3: when
    Examples:
        1 + 2     -->  I work (1) for five hours (2) every day
        2 + 3     -->  The magazine was published (2) weekly (3) last year.
        1 + 3     -->  I was abroad (1) for two months (3) last year.
        1 + 2 + 3 -->  She worked in a hospital (1) for two days (2) every week (3) last year.

    STILL
    She is still waiting for you.
    Jim might still want some.
    Do you still work for the company?
    Are you still here?
    I am still hungry.


    YET
    Have you finished your work yet? (= simple request for information)
    No, not yet. (= simple negative answer)
    They haven't met him yet. (= simple negative statement)
    Haven't you finished yet? (= expressing surprise)

---> ADVERBS OF DURATION ---> HOW LONG?
    She stayed in their house all day.
    My mother lived in France for a year.
    I have been going to this school since 1996.
    I stayed in Switzerland for three days.
    I am going on vacation for a week.
    I have been riding horses for several years.
    The French monarchy lasted for several centuries.
    I have not seen you since Monday.
    Jim has been working here since 1997.
    There has not been a more exciting discovery since last century.

---> ADVERBS OF PLACE --- WHERE?
    on -- off, in -- out, inside -- outside, over -- under, overseas, underground
    near – away, far, nearby, above – below, down -- up, here, there, abroad, indoors 
    everywhere, somewhere, elsewhere, about, forward – Backward, ahead -- back, 
    upstairs -- downstairs, homeward, downtown, on the top -- bottom, at some place (in İzmir, at home, on the ground, etc.)
    along, behind, east, west, north, south, next door, next to, right – left (on/to/from)

    He is standing near the wall. (Duvar yanında duruyor)
    They will come here. (Buraya gelecekler)
    He lives somewhere in Turkey. (O Türkiyenin bir yerinde yaşar)
    My friend went abroad yesterday (Arkadaşım dün yurt dışına gitti)
    He is sitting upstairs. (Üst katta oturuyor)
    I went out. (Dışarı çıktım)
    He turned back (Geri döndü)
    Let’s play in the garden this afternoon. (Bu öğleden sonra bahçede oynayalım)
    Look outside. (Dışarı bak)
    John lives there. --> There lives John. (John orada yaşar)
    The policeman comes here. --> Here comes the policeman. (Polis buraya gelir)
    John is here. --> Here is John. (John burada)

---> ADVERBS OF DEGREE --- HOW MUCH?
    almost, hardly, barely, fully, completely, decidedly, deeply, entirely, extremely, intensely, 
    highly, fairly, indeed, somewhat, so, simply, scarcely, really, rather, quite, purely, positively, 
    perfectly, nearly, much, most, lots, little, less, least, just, greatly, enormously

    Adverb of degree	Modifying	    Example
    -------------------------------------------
    extremely           adjective       The water was extremely cold.
    quite               adjective       The movie is quite interesting.
    just                verb            He was just leaving.
    almost              verb            She has almost finished.
    very                adverb          She is running very fast.
    too                 adverb          You are walking too slowly.
    enough              adverb          You are running fast enough.


    ENOUGH
        Is your coffee hot enough to drink?
        This box isn't big enough.
        He didn't study hard enough to pass the exam.
        The dress was big enough for me.
        She's not experienced enough for this job.
    ENOUGH AS DETERMINER
        We have enough bread.
        You have enough children.
        They don't have enough food.

    TOO - also
        I would like to go swimming too, if you will let me come.
        Can I go to the zoo too?
        Is this gift for me too?
        I'm not going to clean your room too!
    TOO - excessively
        He works too hard to have some free time.
        Isn't she too young to get married?
        He is too short for this job
        The dress was too small for her.

    VERY vs. TOO
        He speaks very quickly.
        He speaks too quickly for me to understand.                     ---> Anlayamayacağım kadar hızlı konuşuyor. 
        It is very hot outside.
        It is too hot outside to go for a walk.


---> ADVERBS OF MANNER --- HOW?
    suddenly, easily, loudly, quietly, softly, happily, quickly, slowly, carefully, gladly
    badly, boldly, bravely, eagerly, obediently, frankly, cheerfully, joyously, elegantly, justly, neatly - temizce
    kindly = gently, equally, cautiously, faithfully, honestly, dramatically, fantastically, obscenely - bariz şekilde

    good = adjective, well = adverb
    fast fast, hard hard, early early, late late

    She is a careful driver. (O dikkatli bir sürücüdür)    --> She drives carefully. (Dikkatlice araba sürer)
    My father is good at football. (Babam futbolda iyidir) --> He plays football well. (O iyi (iyi bir şekilde) futbol oynar)

    My father drives carefully. (Babam dikkatli bir şekilde araba sürer.)
    You should reply correctly. (Doğru bir şekilde yanıtlamalısın)
    We were walking home quickly. (Çabuk bir şekilde eve yürüyorduk.)
    The children are playing happily in the garden. (Çocuklar mutlu bir şekilde bahçede oynuyorlar)
    They solved the problem easily. (Problemi kolayca çözdüler)
    The cook cooked the dinner well. (Aşçı yemeği iyi bir şekilde pişirdi.)
    Don’t drive fast. (Hızlı sürme)
    You should study hard. (Sıkı çalışmalısın)


---> ADVERBS OF QUANTITY 
COUNTABLE NOUNS
MANY / MORE
    My neighbour has many cats and she wants more. 
A LOT / LOTS
    I want a lof of dogs and I want lots of cats too!
FEW / FEWER
    There are just a few fairies left in the forest and soon there will be fewer.
TOO MANY / TOO FEW
    There are not too many people left on the island and there are too few old people.
(NOT) ENOUGH
    You can’t have enough cats!

UNCOUNTABLE NOUNS
MUCH / MORE
    I haven’t got much time to spend with my dogs. I need more free time.
A LOT / LOTS
    There’s a lot of information on the internet and lots of data.
LITTLE / LESS
    I have little information on witches and even less on dragons.
TOO MUCH / TOO LITTLE
    You spend too much time with your dogs and too little with your friends.
(NOT) ENOUGH
    That’s enough happiness for a lifetime.

--> ADVERBS BEFORE ADJECTIVE
TOO
    This spell is too powerful, don’t use it indoors.
SO
    It’s so powerful, it can turn a hundred people into zombies.
A LITTLE (BIT)
    Be careful with that cat lady. She’s a little bit crazy.
ENOUGH (comes after the adjective)
    She’s a nice person, she’s just not friendly enough.
(NOT) VERY
    I would say she’s very rude.
QUITE
    This forest is quite scary.
RATHER
    That dragon is rather scary, too.
PRETTY
    It’s pretty dark in here.
    
    
    
---> ADVERBS OF FREQUENCY ---> HOW OFTEN?
    Always, Sometimes, Often, Frequently, Seldom, Rarely
    Constantly, Generally, Normally, Regularly, Occasionally, Infrequently
    Hardly ever, Almost never, Never

    once a week, twice a month, three times a week
    every day/week/month/year
    ever != never
    hourly, daily == everyday, nightly, weekly, monthly, yearly, annually
    
    -This magazine is published monthly.
    -He visits his mother once a week.
    -I work five days a week.
    -I saw the movie seven times.



ADVERBS OF AFFIRMATION or NEGATION
    indeed, exactly, certainly, surely, apparently, obviously, perhaps, invalidly, verily
    by all means, definitely, probably, really, clearly, truly, doubtlessly, undoubtedly
    no longer, hardly, not very, never, almost, rarely, contradictorily, scarcely

    They are definitely going to win. I’m certain of it, so I placed a $1000 bet.
    We certainly don’t steal from our customers! It must have been a computer error.
    Given the circumstances, I surely won’t allow you to go out. --> Şartlar göz önüne alındığında, kesinlikle dışarı çıkmana izin vermeyeceğim.
    It’s truly a staggering innovation that will change the world. --> Bu gerçekten dünyayı değiştirecek şaşırtıcı bir yenilik.
    We are obviously going to make a lot of money with this investment.
    The burglar will be found, by all means necessary. --> Hırsız bulunacak, ne pahasına olursa olsun.

    There’s no chance they’re going to win tonight. Especially not since they lost their start player.
    She has never been to Las Vegas, so I’m certain she hasn’t gotten married behind his back. 
    I don’t see any way this project could hope to be profitable. --> Bu projenin karlı olmasını ummanın bir yolunu göremiyorum.




