---> MODALS
PRESENT           PAST
--------------------------
can               could
will              would
shall             should
may               might
must              had to
have to           had to

be able to	  was/were able to
be supposed to 

--> COMPOUND MODALS
will be able to		had been able to	might be able to
will have to go		had had to be 		might have to

would have been done 
should have been done
could have been done

---> EXAMPLES
He will/can/should/must have called her
She would/could/should/had to have called him
I could have lied
She asked me if she could sit at the end of our table. (Permission)
Could you help me with this math problem? (Request)
You could take a painkiller if your headache gets worse. (Advice) 
Mozart could play the piano at the age of five. (Ability)
Things can get crazy around here sometimes. (Possibility)
To be healthy, a plant has to receive a good supply of sunshine. (Necessity)
Would you help me to carry this heavy suitcase? (Request)
May I ask whether you are using the telephone? (Permission)
She wasn't supposed to be here - o burada olmamaliydi
he was getting used to getting to do
it could have gone better - daha iyi de gidebilirdi


--> CAN
Can you help me? (request)
I can play football, but I can not speak German. (ability)
I know he can’t drive yet, but he can dream. (ability)
We can stay home and watch telly tonight. (suggestion/giving an option) 
That can’t be her. (impossibility)
but she can come back at any time - ama her an geri gelebilir (possibility)

--> COULD	
I could do trigonometry six years ago. (past ability)
Could i call you? (polite question)
She could be here. / She couldn’t be here. (possibility / impossibility)
You could try doing this. (suggestion)

--> BE ABLE TO	
You were able to pass that exam with the help of the notes I gave you. (temporary ability)
She isn’t able to move her arm. (temporary disability/negative situation)
I’m not able to ride a bike, my bike is broken.
I can’t ride a bike, I’ve never learnt how.

--> MAY	
The teacher may be late tomorrow. (possibility)
Be careful! The road may be slippery. (possibility)
May i borrow your pen for a moment? (Permission - Formal)

--> MIGHT
It might happen. (possibility)
She might get a scholarship this year. (possibility)
They might be eating lunch. (possibility)

--> WILL	
I will come back next year. (future time)
If you only do what you can do, you will never be more than you are now (future time)
Sadece yapabildiğini yaparsan, asla şimdiki halinden farklı olamazsın
I will give money to charity this new year. (promise/willingness)
Will you have a piece of cake? (polite question)
Will you let him? (polite question)

--> WOULD	
Would you mind closing the door? (polite question)
INVITATIONS/PREFERENCES/DESIRES
I would like a cup of tea.
I would like to walk on the street.
(Which) Would you prefer apples or oranges?
What would be the first song you want played at your funeral?
I’m not saying ‘I hate you’ but I would unplug your life support to charge my phone.

--> SHALL
Shall i help you with that? (offer)
I shall meet you there this evening. (confirmation)
You shall be the first person to know. (promises)

--> SHOULD
You should try this new dress. (recommend)
You should be more careful where you loiter. (recommend)  
Nerelerde takıldığına daha dikkat etmelisin.
We should deal with this right now. (the right thing to do)
He should be home soon but i’m not sure. (uncertain prediction)

--> BE SUPPOSED TO
It was supposed to be me  - o ben olmalıydım

--> MUST
She must leave. (probability/logical assumption)
She must be stuck in traffic. (probability/logical assumption)
There must be some mistake. (probability/logical assumption)
You must be back by 11 o’clock. (necessity)
You must not park your car here. (prohibition)
You must not eat my food. (prohibition)

--> HAS/HAVE TO	
People have to have an identity card (necessity)
I have to wear a tie at work. (obligation)
She is a teacher. She has to make lesson plans (rules)
I don’t have to get up early. (negative)
She doesn’t have to clean the house (negative)

--> HAS/HAVE GOT TO	
Will you tell him he has got to be more considerate?
Daha anlayışlı olmasını söyleyecek misin?
	
--> HAD TO
He had to work overtime yesterday. (past obligation)
We had to wake up very early this morning because our bus was at seven am. (past necessity)



---> EXTRAS
--> WANT TO	
I don’t want to run into him - Ona rastlamak istemiyorum
I don't want to get involved - Ben karışmak istemiyorum

--> NEED TO	
Being smart isn’t enough, you need to fit in. (recommend)
Akıllı olmak yetmez, uyum içinde olmalısın
Of course I talk to myself. Sometimes I need expert advice. (necessary)
He needed to learn for himself - yaşayarak ögrenmesi gerekiyordu

--> TRY TO

--> MANAGED TO	uğraş sonucu elde edilen başarı

--> HAD BETTER	



