CONJUNCTIONS (CONNECTORS, LINKING WORDS)									     prepared by Uğur ARSLAN, @arslanuguur
      - Coordinating Conjunctions		düzenleyen bağlaçlar		independent + independent
            - for, and, nor, but, or, yet, so
      - Correlative Conjunctions		bağıntılı bağlaçlar (ikili bağlaçlar)
            -- too, also, so, also
      - Subordinating Conjunctions		bağımlı bağlaçlar		dependent/independent + independent



---> COORDINATING CONJUNCTIONS - FANBOYS
	--> FOR
		Shows a reason or purpose. 
		Using 'for' in this way can often be seen as quite formal, 
		and so is usually replaced with the word 'because', 'since', or 'as'.
      			The money I earned is gone, for I have spent it all.

	--> AND
		Connects two similar ideas.
      			I have to be at work, and the doctor's.
            			I have to be at work
            			I have to be at the doctor's.
      			I'm going to learn how to play the guitar and piano.
           			I'm going to learn how to play the guitar.
            			I'm going to learn how to play the piano.
            
	--> NOR
		Now can be interchanged with 'neither' and compares a negative, contrasting Idea. 
		Essentially, it is the opposite of 'and'.
      			I cannot go to work, nor the doctor's.
      			I'm not going to learn to play the guitar, nor the piano.

	--> BUT
		Compares to contrasting ideas or highlights an exception.
      			I can go to the pool, but I won't swim.
            		Idea:             I can go to the pool
            		Contrasting idea: I won’t swim.

		It can also be used in a way that says, ‘not this, but that’.
      			The noise wasn’t coming from a computer, but rather a phone.
       			I know you have had a bad day but you don't have to take it out on me 

	--> OR
		Or highlights two choices.
      			You can choose a blue jumper or a pink jumper.
      			They were either angry or sad.
      			Do you want vanilla or chocolate cake?

	--> YET
		Yet is used in a way to show an exception or a contrast to an idea.
   			There are five cars, yet none of them are working.
    			I drank a full bottle of water, yet I still felt thirsty.

	--> SO
		So is used to show a reaction or consequence.
    			I ate a lot of cookies, so there are none left.
			I was feeling anxious, so I went home.



---> TOO, ALSO, SO, AS WELL, EITHER (TÜRKÇEDEKİ DAHİ (DE, DA ANLAMINDA))
	--> ALSO
		- getting no message, is also a message
		- He was also dressed for the exclusive party
		- Both William and Catherine would also attend
		- She also lost her sense of smell and taste
		- It’s very humid. Also, you can easily get sunburnt
		- I’ll phone you next week and we can discuss it then. Also, we need to decide who will be going to Singapore
		
		
	--> SO
		- I am a student 		--> "So I am," replied she.
		- my wife likes shopping 	--> "So is Martha," he answered with a laugh.
		- you also talked with her? 	-->  "So did I," he interrupted. 
		- he has seen her on the street --> So have I
		- she had loved you 		--> So had I, but it's not possible any more 
		- I didn't realize you were so sensitive about it.***
		- I told you so.***
		
	--> TOO 
		- 15 + 15 is thirty and 16 + 16 is thirty too
                - if you’re going to the mall, can I come too?
		- I love you too, sweetie. = me too
		- "Ah, you've come here too, young man!" he said
		- Gill’s having chicken. I’ll probably have chicken too
		- She looks really tired and she must be really hungry too
		
	--> EITHER
		- Bill’s not here. I don’t think Dave is either, is he?
		- I can't sleep either		
		- no, no, don't answer that either
		- what if they don't talk, either?
		- I don't know why either	- I don't know anything about either
		- you don't trust me, either
		- it wasn't either of your faults
		- I am not going 		- nor am I
		- he can't drive, and neither can she
		
	--> AS WELL
		- A: I’ll have steak please
    		  B: Yes
    		  A: And I’ll have the mixed vegetables as well
		- if he had lied to her, he might have cheated as well
		- I think you felt something as well
		- She must have suspected as well
		- There was little sound from the kitchen as well
		- He obviously missed Julia as well
		- She can decide for herself as well
		
		--> AS WELL AS - yanı sıra
		- He could be tender and thoughtful, as well as charming
		- I know you as well as I know anyone else
		- This wasn't going as well as she had planned
		- In fact, they were a police force as well as an army
		



---> CORRELATIVE CONJUNCTIONS (Paired Conjuntions)
	--> BOTH ... AND ...			--> hem ... hem de ...
		- we'll have both the cheesecake and the chocolate cake
		- he can both sing and play the violin
		- I am finished with both my English essay and my history essay

	--> EITHER ... OR ...			--> ya ... ya da ...
		- a man either cheats or he doesn't.
		- either come in, or go think somewhere else
		- she either doesn't understand or is pretending
		- you can have either tea or coffee 
		
	--> NEITHER ... NOR ...			--> ne ... ne de ...
		- by the way, neither Alex nor I drink
		- he heard neither the clock nor the birds
		- they knew neither her name nor anything about her
		- he will neither visit the museum nor attend the conference
		- neither will he visit the museum nor will he attend the conference
	
	--> NOT ONLY ... BUT ALSO / AS WELL	--> sadece ... değil, aynı zamanda ...
      		- not only John but also George is from London
		- not only did he invite his cousins but also his close friends 
		- Not only am I finished studying for English, but I’m also finished writing my history essay.

      	--> SO ... AS				--> kadar ... çok
      		- he can’t run so fast as George
	
	--> SO ... THAT				--> öyle ... ki
		- he spoke so quickly that nobody understood what he said
	
	--> AS ... AS				--> kadar
		- the flat that we will buy must be as cheap as possible
		- he can’t run as fast as George
		- Jane is as rich as Peter
	
	--> SUCH ... THAT			--> öyle ... ki
		- he is such a good player that many teams are eager to transfer him
	
	--> THE MORE ... THE MORE		--> ne kadar ... o kadar ...
		- the more you work, the more you earn
		- the longer they play, the more they lose- ne kadar uzun oynarlarsa o kadar kaybederler
		- the more a man has in himself, the less he will want from other people
			bir insan kendi içinde ne kadar çok şeye sahipse, diğer insanlardan o kadar az şey isteyecektir 
	
	--> NO SOONER ... THAN 			--> daha erken yapmamıştım, demeye kalmadan, yapar yapmaz
		- he had no sooner opened his eyes than the phone rang
		- no sooner had he opened his eyes than the phone rang
	
	--> WHETHER ... OR			--> ya da sevmesin	
		- he will have to cooperate with us, whether he likes us or not
		- Idk whether I will come or not
	
	--> RATHER ... THAN
		- i would rather stay at home than go out tonight
	
	--> HARDLY ... WHEN			--> zar zor	
		- he had hardly found a job when he got ill
		- hardly had he found a job when he got ill
	
	--> SCARCELY ... WHEN			--> ucu ucuna, ancak
		- he had scarcely gone to bed when the phone rang
		- scarcely had he gone to bed when the phone rang







---> SUBORDINATING CONJUNCTIONS
--> Time
		after			-den sonra
						after several rings, it went to the message
						after a few moments, he glanced up at her
		before			-den önce
						I worked with him for two years before I discovered who he really was
						it was some time before I could plan it to suit me
		when			-dığı zaman
						he had climbed many a tree when he was a boy
						when she woke again, the room was dark
		while			iken, sırada
						I don't want you to drive while you're so tired
						next week today, I will be lying on the beach while you are taking 
		as			iken, sırada
						as they looked down the street they saw a horseman coming - sokağın aşağısına baktıklarında bir atlının geldiğini gördüler
						His gaze drifted away as he considered the idea	- Bu fikri düşünürken bakışları başka yöne kaydı
		just as			tıpkı, gibi
						just as I walked into the room, I noticed a big spider on my bed
		
		by the time		zamana kadar
						it will be almost midnight by the time we arrive home
						most of the guests were already there by the time we arrived at the party						
		since			-den beri
						she has made considerable progress since she started attending school more regularly
						he has been looking for a job since he graduated, but hasn't found one yet
						it is almost a year since she has been married
						since when did we start following the rules?		ne zamandan beri kurallara uyduk?
		until / till		-a kadar
						I will stay up until midnight tomorrow
						I wont say much till it’s time to go to bed
						
		not until		-den önce değil
					-meden önce
		eventually 		er ya da geç
		whenever		ne zaman olursa
		every time (that)	ne zaman .. olsa
						Every time we meet a problem, it always seems to be related to housing
						Naturally i will come to you for advice whenever i feel in need of some
		the first time (that)	ilk kez
		the last time (that)	son kez
		the next time (that)	bir dahaki sefere
		now that		mademki, -dığından
		meanwhile		o esnada
		in the meantime		bu arada
		in the past		geçmişte
		currently		şu anda
		presently		şu anda
		as soon as		yapar yapmaz
						I am going to get out and have a drink as soon as I have finished with the work
						I will call you as soon as I receive your mail
						I recognized Julia as soon as I saw her even though it had been more than a year since I had last seen her
						some students rush out of the classroom as s0on as the class ends
		immediately after	-dan hemen sonrası
						she will call us immediately after she arrives in Antalya, so stop worrying		
		the moment		-dığı an
						I will leave the moment I have sent this message	
		once			yapar yapmaz
						once the Soviet Union collapsed, Russia Federation was founded in 1991
						if you were you, I wouldn't start smoking at all, because once you start, it is very difficult to give up
						once I start working for this company, all my financial problems will be over
						once you have read a book by this author, you will want to read more
		as long as / so long as	-dığı sürece
						As long as it is raining, i think i will stay at home
						You can stay with us as long as you want to
		at last			sonunda		(-)
		finally			en sonunda 	(+)
		hence			bundan dolayı
		hardly/barely/scarcely  ... when
		no sooner ... than	... dan önce olamaz
		during			sırasında, esnasında	
						during the lecture, all the students took notes

		NOTE:
			at last / finally = lastly / in the end / at the end / by the end
			- After a two-hour delay, Tom's plane has landed at last.
			- When he arrived at last, I was so angry that I refused to talk to him.
			- Our economy must increase productivity, reduce unemployment and finally develop competition.
			- We must buy flour, chocolate, butter, eggs and lastly some baking powder to make a cake for Kym's birthday
			- Each of us suggested a different plan for our holiday, but in the end we went to the South of France as usual.
			- Put a full stop at the end of your sentence
			- Don't worry! She'll be here by the end of the morning.


--> Emphasis
		indeed			aslında
		obviously		açıkçası
		particularly		özellikle de
		in particular		özellikle
		especially		özellikle
		clearly			açıkça
		importantly		daha da önemlisi
		absolutely		kesinlikle
		definitely		kesinlikle
		without a doubt		şüphesiz
		undoubtedly		şüphesiz
		never			asla
		it should be noted	belirtilmelidir ki 
		as a matter of fact	aslına bakarsan
						As a matter of fact, I did 


--> Addition
		so that			böylece, öyle ki
		even so			olsa bile
		in spite of		karşın, e rağmen
		regardless of		gözetilmeksizin, bakılmaksızın
		due to			nedeniyle, dolayısıyla, yüzünden
		by means of		aracılığıyla
		nonetheless		her şeye rağmen
		further			daha ötesi
		furthermore		üstelik
		also			ayrıca
		too			hem de
		besides			dışında, yanı sıra
		finally			en sonunda
		last			en son
		apart from		dışında
		along with		ile birlikte
		additionally		bunlara ek olarak
		in addition to this	buna ek olarak
		then			ondan sonra
		moreover		dahası
		as well as (that)	yanı sıra
		what’s more		dahası olan şey
		not only ... but also	sadece ... değil, aynı zamanda


--> Summary
		in short		kısacası
		in the word		tek kelimeyle
		anyway			her neyse
		in brief		kısaca
		briefly			kısaca
		it seems		anlaşılan
		clearly			açıkça
		in sum			toplamda
		to sum up		sonuç olarak
		in summary		özetle
		to summarize		özetlemek
		after all		herşeye rağmen, nihayet
		in general		genel olarak
		in conclusion		sonuç olarak
		altogether		tamamen
		to conclude		sonuçlandırmak 




--> Order
		firstly			ilk olarak
		secondly		ikinci olarak 
		thirdly			üçüncü olarak
		finally			en sonunda, sonuçta
		at this time		şu anda
		following		takip edilen, aşağıdaki
		previously		önceki
		before			önceden
		subsequently		sonradan
		above all		her şeyden önce
		last but not least	sonuncu ama bir o kadar önemli
		first and foremost	ilk ve en önemli 


--> Result (Consequence)
		as a result		sonuç olarak
		as a consequence	sonuç olarak
		therefore = thus	bu nedenle = böylece
		consequently		sonuç olarak
		hence			bundan dolayı, bunun sonucu olarak
		for this reason		bu yüzden
		due to			nedeniyle
		so			bu yüzden
		eventually		er ya da geç
		that’s why		çünkü, bu yüzden 

--> Illustration
		like			gibi
		such as			gibileri
		for one thing		örneğin bir şey için		
		for instance		örneğin
		for example		örneğin
		that is			yani
		specifically		özellikle
		illustrated by		tarafından gösterilen
		in particular		özellikle
		including		dahil olmak üzere
		namely			yani, şöyle ki
		in this case		yani bu durumda
		proof of this		bunun kanıtı
		to demonstrate		göstermek
		to clarify		açıklığa kavuşturmak
		to illustrate		açıklamak


--> Comparison
		than			yerine
		rather than		yerine
		whether or not		olsun ya da olmasın
		as much as		olduğu kadar
		whereas			oysa
		similarly		benzer şekilde
		equally			eşit olarak
		likewise		aynı şekilde
		just as			tıpkı
		just like		tıpkı
		similar to		-a benzer
		same as			aynı
		by the same token	aynı şekilde
		in like manner		benzer şekilde
		like			benzer
		another .. like		bir diğer .. gibi
		in the same way		aynı şekilde
		as with			olduğu gibi
		comparable		karşılaştırılabilir 


--> Contrast (Concession and Opposition)
		but			ama, fakat
		yet			ama, fakat, henüz
		whereas			halbuki, oysa
		while			iken
		on the one hand		bir taraftan
		on the other hand	diğer taraftan
		as opposed to		aksine
		on the contrary		tam aksine
		contrary to		aksine
						contrary to what most people believe, spinach is not very rich in iron
		otherwise		aksi halde
		instead of		onun yerine
		even if			olsa bile
		even so			olsa bile		
		no matter		ne yaparsa yapsın
		whatever		her ne ise
		wherever		her neresi ise
		whenever		he ne zamansa
		but for			ama için
		however + adj/ adv	ancak + adj/ adv 
						the weather was quite cold. however, he still went jogging
		but ... anyway		ama ... neyse
		but ... still		ama ... halen
		yet ... still		ama ... halen
		nevertheless		yine de
		nonetheless		her şeye rağmen
		apart from		dışında
		admittedly		kuşkusuz
		all the same		farketmez, yine de
		up to a point		bu noktaya kadar


		although		olmasına rağmen
		though			rağmen
		even though		buna rağmen
		much as			buna rağmen			
		even if			olsa bile
		despite the fact that	bu gerçeğe rağmen
		in spite of the fact that - ... e rağmen, ... se bile
	
		although + clause 	--> ... e rağmen	he can’t speak English although he has been attending a course for two years
		though + clause 	--> ... e rağmen	though I knew the answer, I didn’t tell it
		even though + clause	--> ... e rağmen	even though there weren’t enough funds, the government decided to make new investments
		despite + noun 		--> ... e rağmen	he went out despite the rain
								he couldn’t succeed despite his effort
								despite being disabled, she has made great achievements
		in spite of + noun	--> ... e rağmen	in spite of the rain, they had the party outside
								he decided to go in spite of my objection
								

--> Condition
	CÜMLE ALANLAR
	on condition that	şartıyla
	provided that		şartıyla
	providing that		sağlanması şartıyla, koşuluyla
	so long as		sürece
	as long as		sürece
					as long as it takes - ne kadar gerekirse
	unless			olmazsa		 (kendisi olumsuz olduğu için devamındaki cümle olumsuz olmaz)
					
	if			eğer
	only if			yalnızca
	assuming that		varsayarsak
	in that case		bu durumda
	in case (that)		durumunda
					in case he comes back, what are we supposed to do?
	even if			olsa bile
	in the event (that)	durumunda
	supposing		varsayalım
	if so			eğer öyleyse
	whether or not		öyle ya da böyle
	in order to		amacıyla
	so that			böylece
	otherwise		aksi halde
	or (else)		veya (başka) 
	
	
	
	

--> Reason (Purpose / Cause and Effect)
	CÜMLE ALANLAR
	since, because, for, as long as, so long as, now that, in as much as   -- dığı için, çünkü

	because, since, as
		because our transport company is rather small, we sometimes manage to offer a discount on the sea freight
		since all the buses were crowded, i took a taxi yesterday
	
	on the grounds that – mesi sebebiyle/gerekçesiyle

	now that – artık … -dığına göre
		Now that everybody is here, we can start the conference
		Now that the work is finished, i am going to rest a few hours
	
	seeing that – madem ki
		seeing that you have already made your decision, there isn't much I can do
			madem çoktan kararını verdin, yapabileceğim pek bir şey yok
	
	inas much as – çünkü
		inas much as you couldnt make a decision, you should stop complaining about it
	
	in that – çünkü

	so that, in order (to) (that), to, so as to, what this in mind, in fact, for fear that

	as long as, so long as, inasmuch as, lest, such ... that, so ... that
		as long as you want to, you can stay in this city
		so long as you eat a well-branced diet you will be all right
	
	therefore, consequently, so
		... mek için			--> in order to, so as to, to + Ving
		... mek için, … sın diye 	--> in order that, so that + clause

	So, therefore, as a result, consequently, hence, that's why – bu yüzden, sonuç olarak
		it was rather cold, so we had to stay at home
		it hasnt rained for three months. Therefore, the farmers are having hard times
		they left home late. They, therefore, misssed the bus (therefore)
		there was a lot of noise in the neighborhood. Consequently, he had to move to another place
		

	BECAUSE
	as a result of - nın sonucu olarak
	as things go - bu şekilde geliştiğinden
	considering - göz önüne alarak
	due to - sebebiyle
	by virtue of - sayesinde
	for the sake of - bu uğurda
	in view of - bu bakış açısı ile
	on grounds that - gerekçesiyle
	whereas - buna karşılık

	İSİM ALANLAR
	because of, due to, owing to (the fact that), on account of, in view of, thanks to, by reason of


--> Opinion
	in my opinion
	as far as i’m concerned
	to my mind
	i think
	it seems to me that
		- at least, as far as I can see, he'll be fine
		- there was no other way to look at it as far as she was concerned
		- the wheels started spinning in my mind
		- I am quite clear in my mind that this means building on the existing programmes
			Bunun mevcut programların üzerine inşa etmek anlamına geldiği konusunda oldukça netim
		- I think, the birth rate will go down in my country in the next few years
		- it seems to me that the situation really is very confused
		- the committee adopted too many amendments, in my opinion
		
--> Explaining
	as, since, in so far as, because, the reason why
		- as she left the kitchen, her daughter followed her
		- it has helped seen substantial creations in so far as game quality and design
			Oyun kalitesi ve tasarımı açısından önemli kreasyonların görülmesine yardımcı oldu
		- since the restaurant is located at a beach resort, it is a good choice for hungry people who have just finished exploring the beach
			Restoran bir sahil beldesinde bulunduğundan, sahili keşfetmeyi yeni bitirmiş aç insanlar için iyi bir seçimdir
		- I love to go to the cafe, because I like to see my friends
			arkadaşlarımı görmeyi sevdiğimden, o kafeye gitmeyi seviyorum
		- we have to understand the reason why we do these certain ceremonies in life
			hayatta bu belli törenleri neden yaptığımızı anlamalıyız
		
--> Choice
	or, whatever, whoever, neither ... nor, either ... or
		- I don't know how many times or how many ways I can say I'm sorry
			bilmiyorum kaç kere ya da kaç şekilde özür dilerim diyebileceğimi
		- whatever technique is employed, an electric generator is required
			hangi teknik kullanılırsa kullanılsın, bir elektrik jeneratörü gereklidir
		- she evidently saw this thief, whoever he may have been
			her kimse bu hırsız, belli ki o hırsızı görmüş
		
		
--> Manner
	how, as though, as if
		- he behaved as if nothing had happened			hiçbir şey olmamış gibi davrandı
	
--> Generalisation
	as a rule, for the most part, in general, generally, on the whole, overall, in most cases

--> Place
	where, wherever, here, there, in the back, adjacent to, next to, nearby, beyond, opposite to, at the point

--> Adverb clauses of Place
	where, wherever, everywhere, anywhere
	
--> relative pronouns
	who, whoever, whom, whomever, whose

--> relative adjectives
	that, whatever, which, whichever





due to, owing to, on account of, because of, in view of, by virtue of, as a result of		... den dolayı, ... yüzünden, ... sonucunda
despite, inspite of, for all, notwithstanding							... e rağmen
as well as, in addition to, besides, along with, coupled with, together with			... nın yanı sıra, ... ile birlikte
in contrast to, as opposed to, contrary to, unlike						... nın aksine
however, but, yet, nonetheless, nevertheless, even so, still					fakat, yine de
because, as, since, now that, in that, given that, seeing that, knowing that, for		... dığı için, çünkü
therefore, so, thus, thereby, hence, that’s why, as a result, as a consequence, accordingly	bu yüzden, dolayısıyla
moreover, furthermore, what is more, besides, in addition, additionally, also			dahası, ek olarak
in order to, so as to, with a view to, in an attempt to, in a bid to, with the intention of 	... niyetiyle, ... mek için


	

			Adverbial Clause words			Transitions		Conjunctions		Prepositions
			----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Time								first						after		+ noun / noun phrase
								first of all					before		+ noun / noun phrase
								to begin with					since		+ clause
								in the first place				until		+ clause
								next						by		+ noun / noun phrase
								after that					during		+ noun / noun phrase
								then						up to		+ noun / noun phrase
								afterward(s)					within		+ noun / noun phrase
								later						prior to	+ noun / noun phrase
								finally
								soon
								meanwhile
								in the meantime
								henceforth
								from now on
			-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cause and Effect	because					consequently 		so			because of		nedeniyle, yüzünden
(Reason)		since					therefore		for			due to			nedeniyle, sayesinde
			as/so long as										owing to		nedeniyle, yüzünden
			inasmuch as – mademki gibi								as a result of		sonucunda
			now that - madem									as a consequence of	sonucunda
			so that - ..sın diye, böylece								in view of		göz önüne alarak
			as											thanks to		sayesinde
			on the grounds that									
			in that											+ THE FACT THAT + Clause
			seeing that
			-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Result								therefore		so .. that
								hence			such .. that
								thus
								consequently
								as a result
								accordingly
								thereby
								that's why
								for this reason
			-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Condition		if					otherwise		or (else)		in case of
			unless											in the event of
			only if
			even if
			provided (that)
			in case
			providing (that)
			whether or not
			in the event that
			-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opposition		although				nonetheless		but ... anyway		despite
			whereas - oysa				however			yet ... still		in spite of
			even though				nevertheless
			while					on the other hand
			though
			-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Illustration							for example
								for instance
								such as
			-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Addition							moreover					in addition to
								furthermore					besides
								also




Bağlaç eşleştime (Benzer anlamlar)
such as --> like -- gibi
because --> since -- çünkü
otherwise --> or else
in contrast to --> contrary to
however --> yet -- fakat
moreover --> in addition
as well as --> in addition to
thanks to -- sayesinde
unlike -- ... nın aksine


--> SEQUENCE WORDS
first			next		before		then		last
firstly			second		after		..but then	lastly
first of all,		secondly	after that	meanwhile	finally
initially		and		in addition			eventually
to begin with 		third						in the end
to start off with	thirdly



--> AS
as - olarak, gibi
as regards - e gelince
such as - gibi
so as to - mek için
inasmuch as - çünkü
much as - e rağmen
as far as - kadarı ile
as for - e gelince
as from - .. itibariyle
as to - hakkında
as of - den itibaren
as well - de, da
as well as - nın yanı sıra
as in/with - de olduğu gibi
as long as - dığı sürece
so long as - dığı sürece
as soon as - .. er .. mez
as if - .. mış gibi
as though - .. mış gibi
just as - .. dığı gibi
as a result - sonuç olarak
as a result of - .. neticesinde



