EXTRA INFORMATION											prepared by Uğur ARSLAN, @arslanuguur

---> GET
I get up early every day				ben her gün erken kalkarım
get up here						çık buraya (sahneye gel)
I got on a bus						otobüse bindim
I got off the tree					ağaçtan indim
I am getting bored with the film			filmden sıkıldım
It is getting boring here				burda sıkıcı olmaya başladı
I got tired 						yoruldum
I just got home						eve yeni geldim
I got to the school two minutes ago			okula iki dakika önce geldim.
I get dressed before the breakfast every morning	her sabah kahvaltıdan önce giyinirim
I am getting dressed immediately			hemen giyiniyorum
I am getting used					alışıyorum
I got used						alıştım
I get along with her					onunla anlaşırım
I will get well soon					yakında iyileşeceğim
I get started						başlıyorum 




everyone here has the entirety of mankind's knowledge in their pockets - hepimiz insanlığın sahip olduğu bilgileri arka cebimizde taşıyoruz
fine with me - bence sakınası yok

we apologize for the delay - gecikme izin özür dileriz
he told us everything word by word - kelimesi kelimesine her şeyi bize anlattı
rock, paper, scissors - taş, kağıt, makas
fancy seeing you here! - kimleri görüyorum!
sometimes, their behaviour is the answer you need
trust that what belongs to you will always find you
whatever happens I will be with you - ne olursa olsun, senin yanında olacağım
how did you manage to access all this information - bu kadar bilgiyi nasıl elde ettin?
we wont be able to hold them for much longer - onları daha fazla uzak tutamayız
the event did not go well -by any means-
I am not -in the least- hungry
I have no sympathy -whatsoever-
under the circumstances should you travel alone
what precisely does the job involve?
roughly how many customers do you get in a day?
approximately how far is it?
about what time will we arrive?
what's your teacher like? - she is nice
what about some lunch? - good idea
a lot better - çok daha iyi
there is hot water in the kettle
there was an accident here last week
there were ten people in the queue
there must have been a power cut
there is someone waiting for you = someone is waiting for you
there was a van (was) parked by the house
it looks as if it's going to rain
it seems as though we are not welcome
it seems the phone is out of order
I dont want water, I want whiskey
it is just an extreme maneuver to distract us - bu tam bir dikkat dağıtma taktiği
one who is always at full throttle - tam gaz yaşayan biri
to keep it all reined in - dizginleri elde tutmak
goddammit, I heard you, I am trying to think here
quickly, my ass - acilmiş gtm
you are giving me a hard-on - çok pis gaza getirdin beni
add the fingers on your hand to the toes on your feet, with your cck and your balls, it adds up to 23 (hands and hands and toes, dck and balls, is twenty-three)
I gotta go - gitmem gerekli
there is no easy way to say this
he doesnt even deserve me
swish it around in your mouth
what brings you to Sin city
I just got dumped - terkedildim
I am good in my field - alanımda iyiyim
I call her a vixen - cadaloz, huysuz, tilki
do me proud - beni gururlandır
that's exactly the kind of spirit I am talking about!! işte aynen hakkında konuşuyor olduğum ruh bu - işte istediğim ruh bu
we got locked out of our apartment. would you mind if we waited in here until the locksmith comes?
a noise complaint
your secret is safe with me
you are making progress - ilerliyorsunuz
call = make a call
what happened to you - sana ne oldu
we are busy loving each other
she totally bought it - o tamamen numarayı yedi
hurtful - incitici
I have my retreat - inzivaya çekildim
you are falling (in love) for her
tempt, play tempt, play and she is playing you - she is a wily temptress - o kurnaz baştan çıkarıcı
keep eyes on the prize - ödüle gözünden ayırma - ödüle gözünü dik
u can count on it - buna güvenebilirsin
this is our last shot - bu bizim son şansımız/vuruşumuz
I had no idea you were so much fun - bu kadar fazla eğlenceli olduğunu bilmiyordum
I had no concerns - hiçbir endişem yoktu 
no worries - endişelenme
I am on my way - yoldayım
go figure
court adjourned - mahkeme ertelendi
just in case you are wondering
do you wanna be married to me?
the entire marriage was a lie
you may kiss the bride - gelini öpebilirsin
if you pretend you aren't hurt, you can't heal
don't ever set yourself on fire, just to keep other people warm
not all storms come to disrupt your life, some come to clear your path
in the best case, it keeps you up all night, in the worst case, it lands you in the emergency room
başınıza gelecek en iyi şey, o sizi tüm gece ayakta tutar, en kötü şey ise hastanelik olmaktır
if anything goes wrong, I have sth of a Plan B - işler ters giderse bir B planım var
he's changed - tamamıyla değişmiş
nothing changed - hiç bir şey değişmedi
I will pay the rest of money - paranın geri kalanını ödeyeceğim
linguine - pasta --> dar şeritler şeklinde makarna - spagetti
I am very familiar with defeats - yanilgiyi çok iyi bilirim
it is about your future, not your funeral - be energetic
be authentic - özgün ol
she wants to log into his bank / instagram account
sometime I will come by or be there in 30 minutes - bir ara uğrarım ya da yarım saate ordayım
do you remember what I said before about the right timing? - doğru zamanlama hakkında daha önce söylediğimi hatırlıyormusun
I am totally okay with you wanting some space after a yaer apart - bir yıl ayrı olduktan sonra kendine ara istemeni anlıyorum
we shouldnt let it mess up our plans - planlarımızı bozmasına izin vermemeliyiz
I am off the radar - radarın dışındayım
for presentation --> I am going to mention
traceable
we are back in business - tekrar işe koyuluyoruz
having our own business had always been our greatest dream - kendi işimzi yapmak, her zman en büyük hayalimiz olmuştu
if you know why you're doing it, then it is almost irrelevant what you are doing - bir şeyi neden yaptığınızı bildiğiniz zaman, ne yaptığınızın önemi yoktur


when you make a plan, the possibility that it will fail is about 50 percent.
either it works or it doesn't. if you dont make a plan, the chances of failure are zero percent.
life is what happens when you are making other plans. it never happens the way you think.
maybe sometimes you should just stop planning and "start doing"



https://engdic.org/idiomatic-expressions-list-and-meaning-pdf/
https://www.calvary.edu/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Common-Colloquialisms-and-Idioms.pdf
http://www.espressoenglish.net/wp-content/uploads/free/500-Real-English-Phrases.pdf



SHORTS:
      (I) can't find my keys
   (I am) sorry about that
  (it is) getting dark now
     (is) everything ok?
(are you) tired?


LAW WORDS
law		kanun, hukuk, yasa
lawyer		avukat	solicitor
prison		hapis
court		mahkeme
jury		jüri
witness		tanık, şahit
defendant	sanık
case		dava
evidence	kanıt
right		hak



CORRECT:					INCORRECT:
I am looking forward to seeing you		I am looking forward to see you
your hair is really nice			your hairs are really nice
you should practice speaking English		you should practice to speak English
I work for a bank				I work in a bank
one of my friends lives in Tokyo		one of my friend live in Tokyo
she is good at English				she is good in English



---> FIT, MATCH, SUIT
to fit		uymak, oturmak, uydurmak	my glasses doesn’t fit
to match	eşleştirmek, uygun olmak	your blue shirt matches your blue eyes
to suit		yakışmak, uymak			that dress really suits you



tough		(adj)	zor, sağlam, kuvvetli
though 		(adv)	-e rağmen, yine de					thank you though
thought 	(n)	fikir, düşünce						my thoughts, I thought
through 	(prep)	aracılığıyla, ile, boyunca, -in içinden			through the pipelines - boru hatlarından
thorough 	(adj)	kapsamlı, tam, bütün
throughout 	(adv)	baştan aşağı, boylu boyunca, tamamıyla	



GO			GO TO			GO TO A			GO TO THE		GO ON			GO FOR	           
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
go home			go to sleep		go to a party		go to the bathroom	go on holidays		go for a walk
go downstairs		go to mosque/church	go to a conference	go to the doctor	go on a cruise		go for a swim
go shopping		go to school		go to a concert		go to the bank		go on a trip		go for a drive
go sailing		go to university	go to a restaurant	go to the restaurant	go on a date		go for a nap
go swimming		go to France		go to a bar		go to the supermarket	go on a journey		go for a run           
go camping		go to India		go to a festival	go to the airport	go on strike		go for a dip
go dancing		go to Africa								go on stage		go for a ride
go fishing		go to America
 



---> TONGUE TWISTERS
- red lorry, yellow lorry
- three witches wished three wishes. so, which witch wished which wish?
- she sells sea shells by the sea shore. the shells she sells are surely seashells. so if she sells shells on the seashore, I'm sure she sells seashore shells
- Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers. A peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked



---> DILEMMAS
how long does the winter last in there	- orada kış ne kadar sürer?**
how long is the winter in there		- kış orda ne kadar uzundur?

We talked about my leaving the course	- Kurstan ayrılmam hakkında konuştuk 
We talked about leaving my course	- Kursumu bırakmak hakkında konuştuk 

Corps – a military units trained to perform particular duties
Corpse – a dead body, usually of a person


state - durum vaziyet, hal	- he was in a sad state				üzgün bir haldeydi
				- the car is in a poor state			araba kötü durumda
				- his state of health is not really good	sağlık durumu çok iyi değil
state - eyalet			- there are ten states in Canada		Kanada'da on eyalet var
				- LA is a city in the State of California	Los Angeles, Kalifornia Eyaleti'ndeki bir şehirdir
state - devlet			- Germany is a big state in Europe		Almanya, Avrupa'da büyük bir devlettir
				- he goes to a state school			o, devlet okuluna gider
state - belirtmek, ifade etmek, dile getirmek
				- I am just stating the facts			ben sadece gerçekleri dile getiriyorum
				- the findings were clearly stated in the reportbulgular raporda açık bir şekilde belirtilmiş



---> STRUCTURES
there is always something good to think
tearfully
put on a happy face
at least, for one of us - en azından birimiz için 
this is exactly how I imagined it - bu tam da hayal ettiğim gibi oldu
take your time - acele etme, we got all day - bütün gün bizim
the punch line - can alıcı kısım
subjective - göreceli


ARRIVE
we arrive home / today / late / right on time
we arrived in London
we arrived at the station
we arrived at the village
we arrived on monday


CONCERN
be concerned about	hakkında endişelenmek
be concerned with	ile ilgilenmek
concerns over		üzerine endişeler
a growing concern for	için artan endişe


data --> information --> knowledge --> insight      --> wisdom   --> conspiracy theory
veri --> haber       --> bilgi     --> içgörü/sezgi --> bilgelik --> komplo teorisi





phrasal verbs
we will see about that - onun icabına bakarız, onun hakkında gereğini yaparız, onunla ilgili ilgileniriz
how can you not even be curious about it? - nasıl onunla ilgili meraklı bile değilsin?
you used to be mad about me - deli olmak, deli gibi sevinmek
-not to laze about - tembellik etme - i wasnt lazing about. I tripped
I don't care about your dad. I care about Mona
dont hang about - oyalanma, aylak aylak dolaşma


look for 	a job - iş aramak
		a remedy - çare
		trouble - bela
		an answer - cevap
		evidence - kanıt
		a solution - çözüm
		an adventure - macera
		happiness - mutluluk
		a way out - bir çıkış yolu
		a scapegoat - günah keçisi
		a place to hide - saklanacak yer
		
		


Complimentizer in English
	1. wh-Constructions:	idk who entered the building
	2. whether/if-clause:	idk whether he entered the bulding
	3. that-clause:		I saw that he entered the building
	4. poss-ing/gerund:	I always enjoyed his/him singing that song
	5. participle:		I saw him entering the building
	6. bare infinitive:	I saw him enter the building
	7. for-to infinitive:	it is important for us to get there first
	8. to-infinitive:	it is easy to park your car here




DO    + Object --> the dishes, the laundry, your best, housework, homework, nothing, a favour 
MAKE  + Object --> a phone call, the bed, a cake, a mistake, a comment, dinner
                She made some coffee.
                Did you really make this table?
                   
                make 
                a claim, a mess, a speech, a complaint, a mistake, a start, a concession, 
                a note, a statement, a date, a phone call, a wish, a difference, a point, 
                an appointment, a fuss, a profit/loss, an effort, a list, a sound
	                 
                Make + object (o) + adjective complement (ac)
                --> Music makes me happy.

                Make + object (o) + noun complement (nc)
                --> They made her team captain for the coming year.

                --> A: When am I going to get my suitcase?
                    B: I promise you we’re going to make it a priority.
    
                Make + indirect object (io) + direct object (do)
                --> The chef made him a special cake.
                --> Can I make you a cup of tea or coffee?

                Make + object (o) + prepositional phrase (pp) with for
                --> Can you make a sandwich for Lisa as well?
                --> Can you make Lisa a sandwich as well?
                --> I’ve made an appointment for you at the dentist’s.
                --> I made pasta for our guests.

                Make + object + adjective (or noun) complement + prepositional phrase with for
                --> He made life difficult for me.
                --> What would make it a better book for students?

		Make meaning ‘force to do’
		--> We can use make meaning ‘force someone (to do something)’.
		--> The boss made me work an extra day.
		In the passive voice, we must use an infinitive with to:
		--> The people were made to wait outside while the committee reached its decision.
		
		
                    made from
                    made of
                    made out of
                    made with 


---> DIRECTION
walk until you see the statue - heykeli görene kadar yürü
go through the park - parkın içinden geç
walk for five minutes - beş dakika yürüyün
go upstairs - üst kata çıkın
go downstairs - aşağıya/aşağı kata inin
how can I get to Taksim - Taksime nasıl gidebilirim

turn	to the left / right
	from the left / right
	on your left / right
	on the left / right



PHRASES
I will hazard I can do more damage on my laptop sitting in my pyjamas before my first cup of Earl Grey than you can do in a year in the field
don't lose momentum
house always win
move fast break things
persistance pays off - kalıcılık karşılığını verir
good opportunity/positions don't win games, good moves do
Every C in Pacific Ocean is pronounced differently
can you break a twenty - bir yirmilik bozabilir misin
I dont have any change on me - üzerimde hiç bozuk yok
who will pay the difference - farkı kim ödeyecek?
get some rest - biraz dinlen
don't make a sound - ses yapma
is that really so - gerçekten öyle mi
what is the hurry - ne bu acelen
your opinion will never cut me a check - senin fikrin benim kontrolümü kesemez
get it over with - elini çabuk tut
flattery will get you nowhere - boşuna yağ çekme
present company excluded - sözüm meclisten dışarı
I am on it - o iş bende
it was not meant to be - kısmet değilmiş
I am not buying it honey - yemezler canım
don't mess with me - bana bulaşma
where did you get it - nereden aldın
as soon as possible - mümkün olan en kısa zamanda
on what grounds - neye istinaden, hangi zemin üzerinde
who told you that? - kim bunu sana söyledi ki?
in the long run, we are all dead - uzun vadede, hepimiz ölüyüz
it is on the tip of my tongue - dilimin ucunda
this is your last chance, make it count - bu son şansın, iyi değerlendir
like painting the Forth Bridge - a neverending job
there is no such thing as I can't stand, I stand - dayanamam diye bir şey yok; dayanırım
strategy requires thought, tactics require observation
I want to keep my private life private - özel hayatımı özel tutmak istiyorum
why do I get the feeling that that is not true - neden bunun gerçek olmadığı duygusuna kapılıyorum
this is not always the case - bu her zaman böyle değildir
James isnt a cat person. Dogs are his cup of tea
bullets only do their jobs after they are fired
don't jinx it - nazar değdirme
it's on me - ben ısmarlıyorum
have it your way - ne halin varsa gör
save your breath - boşuna çeneni yorma
i can't help it  - elimde değil
man of his word - sözünün eri
so what - ne yapalım yan, ne olmuş yani
all things must pass - bu da geçer
time works wonders - zaman her şeyin ilacıdır
I am bushed - halim kalmadı
where are you calling from? - nereden arıyorsun?
summer is cool, if you are rich
it is beyond me - bu beni aşar
it is up to you - sana bağlı sen bilirsin
lets get to the point - sadede gelelim
I am out of condition - formdan düştüm
my battery is dead / low - şarjım bitti / az kaldı
you know what - ne diyeceğimi biliyorsun
it is better than nothing  - hiç yoktan iyidir
it is my turn - benim sıram
to whom it may concern.. - ilgili kişiye
behave yourself - terbiyeni takın, kendine gel, uslu dur
comparison destroy personality. it's not sharp enough, it's not colourful enough
this fatty is reading your rival - bu şişko rakibini okuyor
no big deal - büyük bir mesele değil
he is dedicated - kendini adamış
I have always been involved with sports - hep sporla ilgilendim
weirdly very cerebral, very technical one - tuhaf bir şekilde aşırı zeki, aşırı teknik biri
at first I thought they wouldnt understand each other - ilk bakışta bu insanların birbirilerini hiç anlamayacağını sandım
there is no other way, it is only a matter of time that he resigns - başka bir yol yok, istifa etmesi an meselesi
we offer free delivery on orders over fifty dollar - elli dollar üzerindeki siparişlere ücretsiz kargo sunuyoruz
contradictory intent - çelişik niyet: excessive intent drives away what is desired - aşırı niyet arzulanan şeyi uzaklaştırır
boxing is managing pressure, it's being alert but being relaxed - boksta stresi yönetmek gerekiyor, hem tetikte olman gerekir, hem de rahat
one day you will wake up and there won't be any more time to do the things you have always wanted to do. do it now!
no matter how hard you try, it might not work - ne kadar uğraşırsan uğraş, işe yaramayabilirdi
she is all instinct, just the opposite - o tamamaen içgüdüsel biri, tam zıttı
good captains go down with the ship, gentlemen it was an honour playing with you tonight - iyi kaptanlar gemiyle batar
wanderlust - yolculuk tutkusu
precise - düzgün
peculiar - özel
unhinged - kafayı yemiş
plausible
privilige - ayrıcalık,
priceless - kıymetli
I'm awake - uyanığım
leg trapped - bacağım sıkıştı
one step further - bir adım ileri
trying to control what is outside of your control will control you
when you focus on you, you grow. when you focus on shit, shit grows.
with right people you grow every day
now more than ever I trust the waiting
eventually all waves settle
a champion is someone who gets up when he can't
it is hard to beat a person who never gives up
always start out with a larger pot than what you think you need
what one does is what counts. not what one had the intention of doing
the measure of intelligence is the ability to change
don't take advice from people like me. do your own thing always
embracing a future that is hybrid
you got ripped off - kazıklanmışsın
use restraint - kendini tutmayı/sınırlandırmayı lehine kullan
we are safe and sound  - sağ salimiz, güvendeyiz 
don't piss me off - beni kızdırma
get well soon - geçmiş olsun
I lost my temper - sinirlerim bozuldu
I don't give a crap - zerre umrumda değil
hell if I know - biliyorsam ne olayım
let me guess - dur tahmin edeyim
let's just leave it at that  - bu konuyu kapatalım artık
I am parched - dilim damağım kurudu
keep your eyes peeled - gözünü dört aç
makes no difference to me - benim için fark etmez
err is human - hatasız kul olmaz
why bother - ne gereği var, ne gerek var
we are even - ödeştik
don't be a stranger - kendini özletme
they got home safe and sound - sağ salim eve vardılar
why should I care  - bana ne, beni ilgilendirmez
shut you gob - kapa çeneni
I am on a roll - bugün şanslı günümdeyim
dont you dare - hele bi dene
talk to the hand - külahıma anlat
things are looking up - işler iyi gidiyor
it doesnt bother me at all - bana göre hava hoş
things are crazy - ortalık karışık
you have bitten off more than you can chew - boyundan büyük işlere kalkışma
what's wrong with you - derdin ne senin?
that was so close - ucuz atlattık
drainage system - kanalizasyon sistemi
in for a penny, in for a pound - battı balık yan gider
let's get down to brass tacks here
brass tacks - sadede gelelim, olaya girelim, konuya geçelim
I wasn’t born yesterday – sen giderken ben dönüyordum
no more mr.nice guy – efendilikte bir yere kadar
do you ever hear yourself – ağzından çıkanı kulağın duyuyor mu senin
dont even go there – o konuya hiç girme
out of sight, out of mind – gözden uzak olan gönülden uzak olur
I dont feel like – canım istemiyor
there is no such thing as I can't come - gelemem diye birşey yok
there is no such thing as luck - şans diye birşey yok
it depends on 100% concentration, 100% commitment
I am doing what I love to do, but I don't owe anybody anything anymore
in full swing - en civcivli zamanında, tam faaliyet halinde, en yoğun döneminde
it is one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind
after that, the game lost its favor - ondan sonra, oyunun tadı kaçtı
you are dipping and dapping and you dont know what's happening - batıyorsun çıkıyorsun ne olduğunu bilmiyorsun
there will always be a reason not to follow your dreams
everyone has a great time and parties like there's no tomo
take it from me, I have had five divorces. Understand what that means? - five times I thought I was in love
nobody picks up on my patterns - sağım solum belli olmaz
dont cry because it's over, smile because it happened
long con - uzun dalgadümen
the height difference - boy farkı
cough it up  - öt bakalım
let's get something straight right now - bişeyi açıklığa kavuşturalım
discipline leads to habits, habits leads to consistency, consistency leads to growth 
consistency - tutarlılık, uyum
he must not trust you - sana güvenmiyor kesin
nice pull - iyi numara
you sneaky little minx - seni küçük sinsi şeytan
you first - önden buyur
secure the perimeter
fork lift - çatal yükselmek --> forklift
right this way - bu taraftan
what is going on there - ne oluyor orda
scaffold - yapı iskelesi
seal the place - mekanı mühürle, kapa
to distract  - dikkat dağıtmak
we gotta go - gitmeliyiz
gotcha! - got you! - tamamdır!
hang around - etrafta takılmak
detain your friend - arkadaşını tutukla
we had a moment - özel bi an yaşadık
counteroffer - karşı teklif
the vault room - kasa odası
an English major - Dil uzmanı
speak for yourself - kendi adına konuş
my treat - bu benden
allow me - müsaadenizle
it is my turn - benim sıram
save yourself - kendini kurtar
come on, bring it in - gel bakalım buraya
I am so focused on winning all the time - her zaman kazanmaya o kadar odaklanıyorum ki
My eyes met many eyes but only got lost in yours
He is struggling to dispose of fake money, containing over million pound that could create economic hazard
O ekonomik tehlike yaratabilecek bir milyon üzerinde poundu elden çıkarmaya çalışıyor.
I love you more as time goes by – zaman geçtikçe seni daha çok seviyorum
No matter what you say, I won’t believe you – Ne söylersen söyle (farketmez), sana inanmayacağım
what an as**ole - pu**un *e*i
don't let's ask for the moon. We have the stars.
greed, for lack of a better word, is good.
Advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy shit we don't need. 
as God is my witness, I'll never be hungry again
Well, here's another nice mess you've gotten me into!
Gentlemen, you can't fight in here! This is the War Room
Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine.
you're going out a youngster, but you've got to come back a star!
Life is a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death!
Carpe diem. Seize the day, boys. Make your lives extraordinary.
what's the most you ever lost on a coin toss?
I have always depended on the kindness of strangers.
I've seen things you people wouldn't believe. Attack ships on fire off the shoulder of Orion. 
I watched C-beams glitter in the dark near the Tannhuser Gate. 
all those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain.
You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
what do you want in exchange? - karşılığında ne istiyorsun
it's a figure of speech - lafın gelişi
I told you. now you have no choice but to trust me - sana söylemiştim bana güvenmekten başka çaren yok
this is starting to look like the Warsaw Ghetto. they are going to search every house - bu iş Varşova Gettosuna döndü. bütün evleri teker teker arayacaklar
to me, maturity means the end of a life of passion and the beginning of a life filled with bitterness - growing old consists of gradually throwing away dreams 
only when you're willfully immature, you can achieve great things - büyük şeyler ancak çocuksu saf duygularla elde edilebilinir
make ingots - altın külçeleri yapmak
he keeps working in full swing like there is no tomorrow - yarınlar yokmuş gibi tam gaz çalışmaya devam ediyor
vibrant - capcanlı, fleeting - geçici, light - rahat
dont make this any harder - daha da zorlaştırma
I need to imagine sth that make you smile - seni gülümseten şeyi hayal etmen gerekli
you nailed it - tam isabet
I will squeeze every second, every second till its last drop - kalan hayatımın son damlasına kadar sıkıp içeceğim
once you have done that, we will have won this war - bunu başardığın an bu savaşı biz kazanacağız
The Land Property Records - Tapu Sicil Merkezi / Kayıtları
no matter how tough things get, they still love eaach other - yaşananlar bir yana bunlar halen birbirini seviyor
marvelous
snap out of it!
wishful thinking
a few min - birkaç dakika
dock – kenetlenmek limanlamak
rather – yerine
larceny - hırsızlık
ectoplasms - hortlaklar
exquisitive
tug-of-war - halat çekme
a smoke screen - kandırmaca, göz yanılgısı
sth up? - bişey mi var?
tattletale - gammazlık
oh, bummer - çok kötü
dont tempt me - beni kışkırtma
go ahead - hadi durma
in a sewer - kanalizasyonda
guess what - bil bakalım..
hurry up - acele et


---> 50 Life Lessons - 50 Hayat Dersi
look people in the eye - insanların gözlerinin içine bak
if you in a fight, hit hard and hit first - eğer bir dövüşteysen, sert vur ve ilk sen vur
keep it simple - basit tut
have a firm handshake - kararlı bir el sıkışına sahip ol
once in a while, take the scenic route - arada bir, manzaralı yoldan git
take charge of your attitude . don't let someone else choose it for you - tavrına sahip çık. başkasının senin için seçmesine izin verme
own a great stereo system
don't expect life to be fair - hayatın adil olmasını bekleme
count your blessings - yat kalk haline şükret
never give up on anybody. miracles happen everyday - birisinden asla vazgeçme, mucizeler her gün olur
always accept an outstretched hand - her zaman uzanmış bir eli kabul et
be brave. even if you are not, pretend to be. no one can tell the difference
whistle - ıslık çal
avoid sarcastic remarks - alaycı sözlerden kaçın
don't make it a habit to do nice things for people who will never find out - asla öğrenemeyecek insanlar için güzel şeyler yapmayı alışkanlık haline getirme 
lend only those books you never care about - sadece hiç umursamadığın kitapları ödünç ver
when playing games with children, let them win - çocuklarla oynadığın zaman kazanmalarına izin ver
give people a second chance, but not a third - insanlara ikinci şansı ver, ama üçüncüyü değil
become the most positive and enthusiastic person you know - tanıdığın en pozitif ve hevesli insan ol 
loosen up, relax. Except for rare life and death matters, nothing is as important as it first seems
	gevşe, rahatla. nadir ölüm kalım meseleleri dışında, hiçbir şey ilk göründüğü kadar önemli değil 
remember that 80 percent of the success in any job is based on your ability to deal with people
	herhangi bir işteki başarının yüzde 80'inin insanlarla başa çıkma yeteneğinize bağlı olduğunu unutmayın
dont allow the phone to interrupt important moments. it's there for our convenience, not the caller's
	telefonun önemli anları kesmesine izin verme. bizim rahatlığımız/kolaylığımız için orada, arayanın kolaylığı için değil 
be a good loser and be a good winner - iyi bir kaybeden ol ve iyi bir kazanan ol
think twice before burdening a friend with a secret - bir arkadaşına bir sır yüklemeden önce iki kez düşün 
be modest. a lot was accomplished before you were born - mütevazı ol. sen doğmadan önce çok şey başarıldı 
beware of the person who has nothing to lose - kaybedecek hiçbir şeyi olmayan kişiden uzak dur
don't burn bridges. even you will be surprised how many times you have to cross the same river
	köprüleri yakma. aynı nehri kaç kez geçmen gerektiğine sen bile şaşıracaksın 
live your life so that your obituary could read. no regrets
	hayatını öyle yaşa ki ölüm ilanını okuyabilsinler. pişmanlık yok 
be bold and courageous. when you look back on life. you will regret things you didn't do more than the ones you did
never waste an opportunity to tell someone you love them
remember no one makes it alone. have a grateful heart and be quick to acknowledge those who helped you
	unutma kimse tek başına yapmaz. minnettar bir kalbe sahip ol ve sana yardım edenleri hemen kabul et 
visit friends and relatives when they are in the hospital; even if it is just for a few minutes
	hastanedeyken arkadaşlarını ve akrabalarını ziyaret et; sadece birkaç dakikalığına da olsa 
begin each day with some of your favorite music
send a lot of Valentine cards. sign them, "someone who thinks you are terrific"
answer the phone with enthusiasm and energy in your voice - telefona sesinizde coşku ve enerjiyle cevap ver
keep a notepad and pencil on your bed-side table. million-dollar ideas sometimes strike at three am
show respect for everyone who works for living, regardless of how trivial their job - işleri ne kadar önemsiz olursa olsun, yaşamak için çalışan herkese saygı göster
send your loved ones flowers. think of a reason later - sevdiğin birilerine çiçek gönder. sebebini sonra düşün
make someone's day by paying the toll for the person in the car behind you
	arkanızdaki arabadaki kişinin geçiş ücretini ödeyerek birinin gününü güzelleştirin 
become someone's hero
never deprive someone of hope; it might be all they have - asla kimseyi umuttan mahrum etme; sahip oldukları tek şey bu olabilir
be romantic, marry only for love and choose your life mate carefully - hayat ortağını dikkatli seç
keep secrets
sing in the shower
compliment the meal when you are a guest in someone's home
wave at the children on a school bus





IELTS English
you and I no longer engage in verbal confabulations                                     --> we dont talk anymore
in light of this evidence, it is crystal clear that..                                   --> in conclusion..
NY has a reputation of its dining establishments                                        --> NY has many restaurants
observe what course of action you compelled me to commit to                             --> look what you made me do
I assure you, under no circumstances are you bound to encounter someone identical to me --> I promise that you will never find another like me
I am able to demonstrate you the spectacular matter, you have never gazed at before     --> I can show you incredible things




PROS / CONS --> Advantages / Disadvantages


--> BODY
body --> smell, taste, hear, see, feel, move
soul --> emotion --> soulless, soulmate
spirit --> energy --> electricity, sun, wind, oil

--> Parts of the Body
Head (Baş)		Hand (El)			Foot / Feet (Ayak/lar)		Body (Vücut)			Internal Organs (İç Organlar)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
forehead - alın 	finger - parmak			ankle - ayak bileği		shoulder - omuz			brain - beyin
hair - saç		thumb - başparmak		heel - topuk			back - sırt			lung - akciğer
eye - göz		index finger - işaret		arch - taban çukuru		breast - göğüs			liver - karaciğer
eyebrow - kaş		middle finger - orta		big toe - ayak başparmağı	boob - göğüs, meme		kidney - böbrek
eyelash - kirpik	ring finger - yüzük		toes - ayak parmakları		nipple - göğüs ucu		windpipe - nefes borusu
nose - burun		little finger - küçük						stomach - karın			vein - damar			
ear - kulak		palm - avuç içi, aya						abdomen - karın, batın		artery - atardamar
cheek - yanak		knuckle - eklem							arm - kol			stomach - mide
lip - dudak		nail - tırnak							armpit - koltuk altı		bowel - bağırsak
chin - çene										thigh - uyluk			gall bladder - safra kesesi
jaw - çene										butt - kalça, popo		appendix - apandis
mouth - ağız										ass - kalça			pancreas - pankreas
neck - boyun										leg - bacak			heart - kalp
gums - diş eti										chest - göğüs			uterus
tooth - teeth - diş									blade - kürek kemiği
temple - şakak										bone - kemik
											spine - omurga, bel kemiği
											belly - göbek
											bellybutton - göbek deliği
											skull - kafatası
											rib - kaburga
											knee - diz
											skeleton - iskelet
											elbow - dirsek
											wrist - bilek
											
my head is spinning - başım dönüyor
my arm is broken - kolum kırık
I have a runny nose - burnum akıyor
he died of a heart attack
she dyed my her hair red - saçını kızıla boyadı
I cut my nails - tırnaklarımı kestim
she has curly hair - kıvırcık saçları var
he has a pointed chin - sivri bir çenesi var
his eyes are filled with tears - gözleri doldu
he slammed her hand on the table - elini masaya vurdu
I banged my head on the door - başımı kapıya çarptım
I got a cramp in my leg - bacağıma kramp girdi
I had my ears pierced last week - geçen hafta kulağımı deldirdim
I closed my eyes and thought of the moment - gözlerimi kappatım anı düşündüm
he showed me the way with his index finger - işaret parmağıyla bana yolu gösterdi
the dentist asked me to open my mouth - dişçi ağzımı açmamı istedi
sugar is a common cause of tooth decay - şeker diş çürümesinin yaygın bir nedenidir
I sprained my ankle in the game - oyunda ayak bileğimi burktum
my lips are dry from the cold - soğuktan dudaklarım kurudu

HAIRDRESSER English
I would like to have the damaged ends trimmed - saçımın kırıklarını aldırmak istiyorum
just the slides, let's leave the top side - sadece yanlardan alalım, üstleri bırakalım
I want some change, should we try cutting bangs - biraz değişiklik istiyorum, kahkül mü denesek
let's not play with the colour of my hair, just highlight - rengi ile oynamayalım, sadece biraz ışıltı atalım
my hair looks so colourless, I want hair care - saçlarım çok cansız görünüyor, bakım yaptırmak istiyorum
I need a root touch-up - dip boyam gelmiş
just the ends, please - sadece uçlarından lütfen


Baby month by Month - Infant Milestones
0-3   - holding head up
4-5   - rolling over both ways
5-7   - rising up on hands
6-8   - crawling
6-8   - sitting without support
9-10  - standing with support
11-15 - walking

examination - muayene
prescription - reçete
syringe - şırınga
emergency - acil servis





d) If clause
If I had one million dollars now, I would buy a new jeep.
If he were to invite us again, it would be a big surprise. 
e) as if, as though
We know that he is guilty, but he acts as if he were innocent. 
f) It is (high) time
Children! It is 12 o’clock right now. It is (high) time you went to bed. 



LATELY 
She had lately returned from India. [mid position19] [past perfect]
It is only lately that she has been well enough to go out. (Ancak son zamanlarda dışarı çıkabilecek kadar iyi oldu)

RECENTLY
A new school has recently opened in New Road. [present perfect] [mid position]
Have you used this computer recently? [present perfect] with different tense  I saw Dave recently. [simple past]
BEFORE
Nothing like this has happened before. [before=before now] [present perfect] with different tense
Why didn’t you ask me before? [before=before then] [simple past]

FOR 
He has been abroad for 8 years. [for+time] compare 
I have studied on this major since 1997. [since +date/event] 
I have studied on this major for 5 years. [for+time/period itself] with different tense
He worked for this factory for 8 years. [simple past] extra  We must begin planning now, for the future may bring unexpected changes. [for=because] [başta yer almaz]20
Not: Before, for, recently sıklıkla hem present perfect hem de simple past ile kullanılırlar
ALREADY 
The cease-fire has already been violated. (Ateşkes çoktan/zaten/halihazırda ihlal edildi) [Pre. Perfect] with different tense
The film had already begun by the time we got to the cinema. (Sinemaya gittiğimizde film çoktan/zaten başlamıştı) [Past Perfect]
Shall I tell Liz the news or does she already know? [Present] 

SINCE 
He has been in Çanakkale since 1996. [since + date]
I met Freddie in June and I haven’t seen him since (then) [since / since then]
They haven’t quarreled since they left school. [present perfect +since+ simple past] 
“They’ve split up.” “Since when?”
They were divorced three years ago, and she has since remarried. [mid position] 
The original building has long since been demolished. [mid position] with different tense 
Since I’ve lived here, I haven’t seen my neighbours. [present perfect+since+present perfect] 
[ender; ancak since-cümlecik ve ana cümle eylemi şu anda devam ediyorsa kullanılabilir]21
Since the party she had only spoken him once. [past perfect +since+any date/event]
22 extra 
Since when did he ever listen to me? (Ne zaman beni dinledi ki?) [kızgınlık] 
We thought that, since we were in the area, we would stop by and see them. [since=because] 
note 
1. Aşağıdaki durumda “since” zaman bağlacından önceki cümle present iken sonraki cümle past veya present perfect olabilir. 
Bazıları since-cümlesinin present perfect olmasını doğru kabul etmez.
It is five years since I last saw Murat. [It is ... time since + simple past] 
How long is it since we last went to the theatre? [It is ... time since + simple past] 
It is five years since I have seen Murat. [It is ... time since + present perfect]

YET
1. I haven’t made up my mind yet.23 (Henüz karar vermedim). [Pre. Perfect] 
2. We have yet to decide what action to take. =We haven’t decided what action to take yet. [have yet to do=haven’t done yet]24 with different tense 
I’m hungry. Is dinner ready yet? (Açım, yemek henüz/hala hazır değil mi?) [present] 
extra 
1. NOW 
a) şimdi, daha, henüz Don’t go yet? (Daha/şimdi gitme?) We don’t need to start yet. (Şimdi/daha/henüz başlamamız gerekmiyor) 
b) hala, daha, henüz There is time yet. (Hala/daha/henüz vakit var) He is yet a child. (Hala/daha/henüz çocuk) 
2. NEVERTHELESS, BUT 
a) eninde sonunda We’ll go there yet. (Eninde sonunda oraya gideceğiz) 
b) ama It is strange, yet true. (Garip ama gerçek) He's overweight and bald, (and) yet somehow, he's incredibly attractive.25 
3. MORE 
Yet another diet book. (Yeni bir diyet kitabı daha) Snow, snow and yet more snow (kar kar ve hala kar)


STILL 
I still haven’t reached my aim. [Pre. Perfect] [before a negative auxiliary verb]
I haven’t still reached my aim. [YANLIŞ] with different tense 
1. You are still talking. [present continuous] 
2. Jack lost his job a year ago and is still unemployed. [Present] 
3. Although he promised to come, I still didn’t think he would.[simple past] compare 
I wrote to him last week. He hasn’t replied yet. [Hala  yanıt bekliyorum]
I wrote to him months ago and he still hasn’t replied. [şu ana kadar cevap yazmalıydı] 

extra 
“Still” aynı zamanda Sessiz, sakin, kımıldamayan, durgun vs anlamında sıfattır ve zarftır. 
Still water (durgun su) a still summer’s day (rüzgarsız bir yaz günü) 
the still of the night (gecenin sessizliği) 
Still water runs deep. (Durgun su derin akar; yumuşak atın çiftesi pek olur) 
Do you sit still please? (Lütfen biraz sakince oturur musun?)

EVER-NEVER
“Have you ever eaten caviar? (in your life)” “No, never.” Compare (simple past-present perfect)  “Ever” ve “never” simple past ile geçmişteki alışkanlık için kullanırlar. 
Did you ever go to the cinema? [simple past] (Hiç sinemaya gider miydiniz?) 
When he was young, he never bothered too much about his appearance. [simple past] (Gençken asla görüntüsüyle bu kadar uğraşmazdı.) 
extra 
1. not ever & never: hiç bir zaman, asla, hiç 
Nothing ever happens here. (Burada hiçbirşey asla olmaz) 
Don’t you ever get tired? (Hiç yorulmaz mısın?) 
I’ll never ever do that again! [informal] (Bunu bir daha asla yapmayacağım) 
2. ever: herhangi bir zaman 
If you’re ever in Miami, come and see us? (Eğer bir vakit Miami’ye gelirsen, gelip bizi gör) 
3. ever: her zaman 
He said he would love her for ever. 
She married the prince and they lived happily ever after. 
Paul, ever the optimist, agreed to try again.


English idioms
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	
A blessing in disguise 						a good thing that seemed bad at first 					as part of a sentence
A dime a dozen 							Something common 							as part of a sentence
Beat around the bush 						Avoid saying what you mean, usually because it is uncomfortable 	as part of a sentence
Better late than never 						Better to arrive late than not to come at all 				by itself
Bite the bullet 						To get something over with because it is inevitable 			as part of a sentence
Break a leg 							Good luck 								by itself
Call it a day 							Stop working on something 						as part of a sentence
Cut somebody some slack 					Don't be so critical 							as part of a sentence
Cutting corners 						Doing something poorly in order to save time or money 			as part of a sentence
Easy does it 							Slow down 								by itself
Get out of hand 						Get out of control 							as part of a sentence
Get something out of your system 				Do the thing you've been wanting to do so you can move on 		as part of a sentence
Get your act together 						Work better or leave 							by itself
Give someone the benefit of the doubt 				Trust what someone says 						as part of a sentence
Go back to the drawing board 					Start over 								as part of a sentence
Hang in there 							Don't give up 								by itself
Hit the sack 							Go to sleep 								as part of a sentence
It's not rocket science 					It's not complicated						 	by itself
Let someone off the hook 					To not hold someone responsible for something 				as part of a sentence
Make a long story short 					Tell something briefly 							as part of a sentence
Miss the boat 							It's too late 								as part of a sentence
No pain, no gain 						You have to work for what you want				 	by itself
On the ball 							Doing a good job						 	as part of a sentence
Pull someone's leg 						To joke with someone 							as part of a sentence
Pull yourself together 						Calm down 								by itself
So far so good 							Things are going well so far 						by itself
Speak of the devil 						The person we were just talking about showed up! 			by itself
That's the last straw 						My patience has run out 						by itself
The best of both worlds 					An ideal situation 							as part of a sentence
Time flies when you're having fun 				You don't notice how long something lasts when it's fun 		by itself
To get bent out of shape 					To get upset 								as part of a sentence
To make matters worse 						Make a problem worse 							as part of a sentence
Under the weather 						Sick 									as part of a sentence
We'll cross that bridge when we come to it 			Let's not talk about that problem right now 				by itself
Wrap your head around something 				Understand something complicated 					as part of a sentence
You can say that again 						That's true, I agree 							by itself
Your guess is as good as mine 					I have no idea 								by itself
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush 			What you have is worth more than what you might have later 		by itself
A penny for your thoughts 					Tell me what you're thinking 						by itself
A penny saved is a penny earned 				Money you save today you can spend later 				by itself
A perfect storm 						the worst possible situation 						as part of a sentence
A picture is worth 1000 words 					Better to show than tell 						by itself
Actions speak louder than words 				Believe what people do and not what they say 				by itself
Add insult to injury 						To make a bad situation worse 						as part of a sentence
Barking up the wrong tree 					To be mistaken, to be looking for solutions in the wrong place 		as part of a sentence
Birds of a feather flock together 				People who are alike are often friends (usually used negatively) 	by itself
Bite off more than you can chew 				Take on a project that you cannot finish 				as part of a sentence
Break the ice 							Make people feel more comfortable 					as part of a sentence
By the skin of your teeth 					Just barely 								as part of a sentence
Comparing apples to oranges 					Comparing two things that cannot be compared 				as part of a sentence
Costs an arm and a leg 						Very expensive 								as part of a sentence
Do something at the drop of a hat 				Do something without having planned beforehand 				as part of a sentence
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you 		Treat people fairly. Also known as "The Golden Rule" 			by itself
Don't count your chickens before they hatch 			Don't count on something good happening until it's happened. 		by itself
Don't cry over spilt milk 					There's no reason to complain about something that can't be fixed 	by itself
Don't give up your day job 					You're not very good at this 						by itself
Don't put all your eggs in one basket 				What you're doing is too risky 						by itself
Every cloud has a silver lining 				Good things come after bad things 					by itself
Get a taste of your own medicine 				Get treated the way you've been treating others (negative) 		as part of a sentence
Give someone the cold shoulder 					Ignore someone 								as part of a sentence
Go on a wild goose chase 					To do something pointless 						as part of a sentence
Good things come to those who wait 				Be patient 								by itself
He has bigger fish to fry 					He has bigger things to take care of than what we are talking about now by itself
He's a chip off the old block 					The son is like the father 						by itself
Hit the nail on the head 					Get something exactly right 						by itself
Ignorance is bliss 						You're better off not knowing 						by itself
It ain't over till the fat lady sings 				This isn't over yet 							by itself
It takes one to know one 					You're just as bad as I am 						by itself
It's a piece of cake 						It's easy 								by itself
It's raining cats and dogs 					It's raining hard 							by itself
Kill two birds with one stone 					Get two things done with a single action 				by itself
Let the cat out of the bag 					Give away a secret 							as part of a sentence
Live and learn 							I made a mistake						 	by itself
Look before you leap 						Take only calculated risks					 	by itself
On thin ice 							On probation. If you make another mistake, there will be trouble.	as part of a sentence
Once in a blue moon 						Rarely 									as part of a sentence
Play devil's advocate 						To argue the opposite, just for the sake of argument 			as part of a sentence
Put something on ice 						Put a projet on hold 							as part of a sentence
Rain on someone's parade 					To spoil something 							as part of a sentence
Saving for a rainy day 						Saving money for later 							as part of a sentence
Slow and steady wins the race 					Reliability is more important than speed 				by itself
Spill the beans 						Give away a secret 							as part of a sentence
Take a rain check 						Postpone a plan 							as part of a sentence
Take it with a grain of salt 					Don’t take it too seriously 						as part of a sentence
The ball is in your court 					It's your decision 							by itself
The best thing since sliced bread 				A really good invention 						as part of a sentence
The devil is in the details 					It looks good from a distance, but when u look closer, there are problems by itself
The early bird gets the worm 					The first people who arrive will get the best stuff 			by itself
The elephant in the room 					The big issue, the problem people are avoiding 				as part of a sentence
The whole nine yards 						Everything, all the way. 						as part of a sentence
There are other fish in the sea 				It's ok to miss this opportunity. Others will arise. 			by itself
There's a method to his madness 				He seems crazy but actually he's clever 				by itself
There's no such thing as a free lunch 				Nothing is entirely free 						by itself
Throw caution to the wind 					Take a risk 								as part of a sentence
You can't have your cake and eat it too 			You can't have everything 						by itself
You can't judge a book by its cover 				This person or thing may look bad, but it's good inside 		by itself
A little learning is a dangerous thing 				People who don't understand something fully are dangerous 		by itself
A snowball effect 						Events have momentum and build upon each other 				as part of a sentence
A snowball's chance in hell 					No chance at all 							as part of a sentence
A stitch in time saves nine 					Fix the problem now because it will get worse later 			by itself
A storm in a teacup 						A big fuss about a small problem 					as part of a sentence
An apple a day keeps the doctor away 				Apples are good for you 						by itself
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure 		You can prevent a problem with little effort. Fixing it later is harder.by itself
As right as rain 						Perfect 								as part of a sentence
Bolt from the blue 						Something that happened without warning 				as part of a sentence
Burn bridges 							Destroy relationships 							as part of a sentence
Calm before the storm 						Something bad is coming, but right now it's calm 			as part of a sentence
Come rain or shine 						No matter what 								as part of a sentence
Curiosity killed the cat 					Stop asking questions 							by itself
Cut the mustard 						Do a good job 								as part of a sentence
Don't beat a dead horse 					Move on, this subject is over 						by itself
Every dog has his day 						Everyone gets a chance at least once 					by itself
Familiarity breeds contempt 					The better you know someone the less you like him 			by itself
Fit as a fiddle 						In good health 								as part of a sentence
Fortune favours the bold 					Take risks 								by itself
Get a second wind 						Have more energy after having been tired 				as part of a sentence
Get wind of something 						Hear news of something secret 						as part of a sentence
Go down in flames 						Fail spectacularly 							as part of a sentence
Haste makes waste 						You'll make mistakes if you rush through something 			by itself
Have your head in the clouds 					Not be concentrating 							as part of a sentence
He who laughs last laughs loudest 				I'll get you back for what you did 					by itself
Hear something straight from the horse's mouth 			Hear something from the person involved 				as part of a sentence
He's not playing with a full deck 				He's dumb 								by itself
He's off his rocker 						He's crazy 								by itself
He's sitting on the fence 					He can't make up his mind 						by itself
It is a poor workman who blames his tools 			If you can't do the job, don't blame it on others 			by itself
It is always darkest before the dawn 				Things are going to get better 						by itself
It takes two to tango 						One person alone isn't responsible. Both people are involved. 		by itself
Jump on the bandwagon 						Follow a trend, do what everyone else is doing 				as part of a sentence
Know which way the wind is blowing 				Understand the situation (usually negative) 				as part of a sentence
Leave no stone unturned 					Look everywhere 							as part of a sentence
Let sleeping dogs lie 						Stop discussing an issue 						as part of a sentence
Like riding a bicycle 						Something you never forget how to do 					as part of a sentence
Like two peas in a pod 						They're always together 						as part of a sentence
Make hay while the sun shines 					Take advantage of a good situation 					as part of a sentence
On cloud nine 							Very happy 								as part of a sentence
Once bitten, twice shy 						You're more cautious when you've been hurt before 			by itself
Out of the frying pan and into the fire 			Things are going from bad to worse 					by itself
Run like the wind 						Run fast 								as part of a sentence
Shape up or ship out 						Work better or leave 							by itself
Snowed under 							Busy 									as part of a sentence
That ship has sailed 						It's too late 								by itself
The pot calling the kettle black 				Someone criticizing someone else he is just as bad 			as part of a sentence
There are clouds on the horizon 				Trouble is coming 							by itself
Those who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones 		People who are morally questionable shouldn't criticize others 		by itself
Through thick and thin 						In good times and in bad times 						as part of a sentence
Time is money 							Work quickly 								by itself
Waste not, want not 						Don't waste things and you'll always have enough 			by itself
We see eye to eye 						We agree 								by itself
Weather the storm 						Go through something difficult 						as part of a sentence
Well begun is half done 					Getting a good start is important 					by itself
When it rains it pours 						Everything is going wrong at once 					by itself
You can catch more flies with honey than you can with vinegar 	You'll get what you want by being nice 					by itself
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink 	You can't force someone to make the right decision 			by itself
You can't make an omelet without breaking some eggs 		There's always a cost to doing something 				by itself


you feel at s***ty as I do - sen de benim gibi **k**n mı hissediyorsun
***k your ideas - ***mi*m fikirlerini
*hit! I'm down - ***t** öldüm


---> Beynin ve durum yapılarının işleyişi üzerine yöntemler, araştırmalar 
🔻 Reason/Logic - Mantık

	you use another truth to find out a truth - bir gerçeği öğrenmek için başka bir gerçeği kullanırsın --> boolean algebra
	axiom - aksiyom
	reasoning rules - akıl yürütme kuralları
	inference rules - çıkarım kuralları


🔻 Situational Awareness (Durumsal Farkındalık)

	be aware of your surroundings, identify specific problems or threats, 
	and be prepared to execute a tactical plan to deal with each threat as it presents itself
	arkandaki resmi hatırlıyor musun?
	2 v 2+ kişi arasındaki ilişkiyi tanımlamak (birbirileri üzerinde zamanlamaları nasıl?, ne amaçla bir araya geliyorlar?)
	

🔻 S.T.A.R. Technique - mevcut olan ya da ihtiyaç olarak kendi uydurduğun problemi, analiz edip kendine göre oyunu/sahneyi kurmak ve problemi çözmek

	situation	-- set the scene		sahneyi ayarla / oyunu kur
	task		-- describe the purpose		amacını tarif et
	action		-- explain what you did		ne yaptığını açıkla
	result		-- share the outcome		sonucu paylaş
	
	
🔻 Eisenhower Matrix: To Evaluate each task - herhangi bir görevin yapılması ya da yapılmaması üzerine karar yöntemi 
				    important
				     	|
		can I do it now?	|	delay / drop / delete 
		   			|		(can I decide when to do it?)
					|		(schedule a time to do it)
					|
	urgent	<-----------------------|------------------------> not urgent
					|
			delegate it	|	delete (should I dump it?)
	     (who can do it for you?)	|	       (eliminate it)
	     				|
				   not important
	

🔻 S.W.O.T. Business Analysis - bir işin ya da aklındaki bir durumun sana getirisi / götürüsü

			helpful					harmful
			(to achieving the objective)		(to achieving the objective)
							|
internal origin						|
(attributes of the organization)	strengthes	|	weaknesses 
		   					|
							|
				------------------------|-----------------------
							|
external origin				opportunities	|	threats
(attributes of the environment)				|
	     						|
			

🔻 http://www.tmco.com.tr/ise-alim-testleri/watson-glaser-elestirel-dusunme
