Linguistics – 10 Questions

> INTRO TO LINGUISTICS
    What is Language?
    What is Linguistics?
    What is Linguistic Knowledge?
    Sub-Branches of Linguistics

                    Micro-Linguistics	          Macro-Linguistics
                    -----------------------------------------------
                    Phonology                     sociolinguistics
                    Phonetics                     discourse analysis
                    Morphology                    language acquision
                    Syntax                        neurolinguistics
                    Semantics	                  applied linguistics
                                                  pragmatics


---> What is Language?
	                    - A system of encoding (conveying) and decoding (understanding) messages
	                    - Languages: oral language, written language (not only vocal), sign language

---> What is Linguistics?
	                    - A scientific study of language in terms of its structure, origin, properties, societal effects etc.
	
---> What is Linguistics Knowledge?
	                    - Knowledge of sounds
	                    - knowledge of words
	                    - knowledge of sentence


---> Approaches to language
		Ferdinand de Saussure
				- Langue: Abstract rules and conventions of a signifying system shared by a community --- Grammar
				- Parole: Concrete act of speaking by an individual                                   --- Speaking
	          
		Noam Chomsky
				- Competence: What a person knows of language/Knowing the rules of language
				- Performance: Actual Speech Production

		Dell Hymes
		                - Communicative Competence
			              The knowledge of grammatical rules
			              The knowledge of rules of using language in social contexts
			                    
				1. Grammatical Competence
			               Knowledge of lexical items, phonology, rules of morphology, syntax, semantics
                                    
                                       # gives answers to the questions below
				       - Which words need to be used?
                                       - how words must be used to form sentences or phrases?

                            	2. Sociolinguistic Competence
			               Knowledge of appropriate language use in certain social situations or for a topic
			               Knowledge of rules and conventions
                                    
                                    	# gives answers to the questions below
				        - Which words are suitable for this situation, topic or context?
			
                            	3. Discourse Competence
			            	Knowledge/Ability of putting forms and sentences- 
                                    	in an order to achieve coherence/cohesion in a text, dialogue, speech etc. (yapısal ve anlamsal)
	       		                        
                                    	# gives answers to the questions below
                                    	- How words, phrases or sentences must be put together to achieve coherence or cohesion?
                                    
                            	4. Strategic Competence
                                	The ability to overcome communication breakdowns
                            				
                              		# gives answers to the questions below
                                    	- How can I express myself when I forget or dont know the name of sth?


                                 # İki şey yapılmalı.
					1. Avoidance
					2. Compensatory Strategy
						Circumlocution:		Using multiple words to explain sth by describing its shape or function
				      	                              	- Ball: the round thing you use to play football
                                                       		      	- Lorry: the vehicle that is used to carry large things
                                                              
				                Coinage:		Using a Word that doesnt exist in the language to substite for unknown Word
					                                - zoo: animal prison
						
						Using Purpose Words:	Using some words such as thing, stuff, object to substitute of unknown word
					                                - give me that thing
				      
                                        	Approximation:		Using sth similar to the thing that is unknown by a speaker
					                                - using duck for goose
				     
                                        	Time Gaining:         	Using words such as “well, uh” etc. you know to gain more time to find the          
                                                              		... word that is unknown
                                                              
                                                              
---> Properties of Language
		- Arbitraries (Rasgelelik)
                	No logical connection between a word and its meaning
			"Car" is named in this way arbitrarily. No reason why we call this vehicle as car
		
		- Displacement (Yer v Zaman anlamında dilin sınırı yok)
			No limitation in language in terms of time, place or object while speaking
			We can talk about past and future
			We can talk about things that are not present
			We can talk about things that cannot be seen

		- Discreteness (Farklılık/Ayrıklık)
			Every language has sounds that are unique
			Each sound in the language is different from others
			“p” and “b” are different from one another or cat, bat, eat..

		- Duality (Double Articulation) (sesler diğer seslerle birleşip sonsuz anlam oluşturur)
			The sounds in the language have two characteristics:
				they are unique
				they can be combined with other sounds to produce limitless messages

		- Cultural Transmission (Kültür Aktarımı)
			Language is transmitted to future generations by culture
			It is not transmitted genetically

		- Productivity (Creativity)
			Language allows us to produce as many sentences we want or we can
			We can talk as much as we can by language
			We can produce limitless utterances they have never been heard
			Herkes aynı resme bakarak farklı cümleler kurabilir

		- Reflexivity
			Using language to talk about itself
			
		- Recursiveness (Uzatılarak tekrarlılık)
			Same structures of language can be used to produce longer utterances
				“I went to mall“
				“I went to mall and bought a pair of sneakers”
				“I went to mall, bought a pair of sneakers anda te pizza”


---> Origins of Language
		Divine Source Hypothesis
			Language as a gift granted by god
			God creates human beings with an innate capacity
		Natural Evolution Hypothesis
			Human beings changed during evolution
			Human beings turned into more sophisticated beings
			Development of some organs and brain
			Language acquisition device
		Tool Making Source
			El hareketleriyle başladı
			The emergence of language as result toolmaking
			The importance of gestures (el hareketleri)
			A developed left brain that processes language learning
			(dil öğrenimi ve alet yapımı sol beyinle ilgili bu yüzden böyle gelişti)
		Ding-Dong Hypothesis
			Naming objects after a relevant sound
			Onomatopoeic words
			“boom, crash,splash, slap, crack”
		Bow-Wow Theory
			Hayvan seslerini taklit ile ortaya çıktı
			Imitation of animal sounds
		Pooh-Pooh Theory
			Ouch, yeah..  ÜNLEMLER
			Emergence of language as a result of interjections
			Exclamations used to express happiness, pain, humger, dislike, pleasure
		Genetic Source
			People have an inherent knowledge of language
			Innate capacity
		Yo-He-Ho Hypothesis
			İnsanların fiziksel güç harcarken çıkardıkları seslerden dil ortaya çıktı
			Instictive soundmade during physical labor



---> Grammar Types
		Descriptive grammar (var olan bir şeyi gösterir)
			A type of grammar that refers to the structure of a language
			The type is actually used by people during oral and written communication
			The way people use their language
			Rule system that is used by people
			*How do people use language?
		Prescriptive Grammar (reçeteli neyi nasıl yapılmasını gösterir)
			It refers to how the structures/rules of a lang. should or shouldnt be as asserted by certain people
			Dil için bazı sınırlar koyuluyor
			It sets boundaries for language
			It has acceptable and unacceptable rules of language
			*How should language be or be used?
		Functional Grammar (İşlevsel)
			It focuses both on the communicative roles and patterns of a language
			Hangi kurallar hangi context  alan için kullanılmalı
			The social and cultural context of grammar is a core point
			The relationship between the structure and social-pragmatic functions of language
			*How the rules of language are used to perform certain functions?
		Pedagogical Grammar
			The grammar type that is developed for people who want to learn target language
			It makes grammatical units learnable and teachable
			It describes how grammar can be used to commuicate by people learning target language
			Learners can make a comparison between grammar of L1 and target language
			*How grammar can be taught and learnt?
		Generative Grammar (Üretilen dil bilgisi)
			It refers to lang. as a set of formal rules formulated to produce innumerabl grammatical sentences
			Dil kurallar dizisi olarak ele alınır
			Cümleleri oluşturan yapılar neler?
			*How are grammatical sentences produced by rules and principles?
		Universal Grammar (her dilde benzer bi sistem var)
			It refers to the theoretical system of rules that are common to all human languages
			The rules are inherited by all people
			It is the basis of specific grammar of all human languages
			*Are there rules that are common to all human languages?


> PHONETICS and PHONOLOGY, Part 1

---> Phonology
		Seslerin soyut ve teorik kısmıyla ilgilenir
		Studies abstract and mental aspects of sounds
		Analyzes rules and patterns of sounds
		How sounds combine anda are organized
		
---> Phonetics
		Seslerin ağzımızdan çıkışı ve dağılışı ve anlandığıyla ilgilenir
		Studies…
			Production of sounds (how they are produced)
			Transmission of sounds (how they are transmitted)
			Reception (how they are heard)
		There are three branches of Phonetics
			Articulatory Phonetics – ses nasıl çıkarılıyor
				En önemli kısım bu – ses nereye temes ediyor diş dudak vs
				Studies the production of sounds
				Üç şeye odaklanır
				-consonants
				-vowels
				-voicing state
				Detaylı şekilde aşağıda var
			Acoustic Phonetics – sesin yayılma aşamasıyla ilgili
				The transmission process of sounds
				Studies sound waves
				The quality of sounds in the air
			Auditory phonetics – sesin nasıl duyulduğuyla ilgili
				Kulakla ilgili
				Studies how sounds are perceived and processed by listeners

---> ***Articulatory Phonetics
		Consonants (Ünsüzler)
			Place of articulation
				The place wheresomeone constricts or obstructs air
				The place where sound is producted

---> Place of Articulation (1 soru)
Bilabial		(İki dudak arası - articulated with two lips)
			b, p, m, w
			“pembe dudakları olan maymunlar nadir görülür”

Labiodental		(dudak ve diş - lower lip touches upper teeth)
			v, f
			“vefa sözcükleri dökülüyordu dudağından” (tek dudak)
			question --> end with labio-dental sound: tough

Interdental/Dental	(dil ve diş - produced with tongue between the teeth)
			th – thing, think, author - Θ
			th – this, other, brother - ð (d gibi)


Alveolar		(en fazla ses bunda var)
			when the tip of tongue touches to the alveolar ridge (behind the top teeth)
			bunda da damak var velar kadar değil
			t, d, n, s, z, l, r
			“telsizler nerede”
			question --> Alveolar is preformed by placing the tip of the tongue on the bony ridge behind the upper teeth
			
Palatal			(fonetik alfabesi Türkçede yok)
			The front or body of the tongue raised to the palatal region when tongue touches hard palate
			∫   - ş, t∫  - ç, з  - j, dз - c
			shy, visual, check, judge

Velar			(yumuşak damağın boğaza yakın kısmı)
			The back of the tongue raised to the soft palate (‘velum’) when the tongue touches velum
			k, g, ŋ
			“kg ile satılan yoğurdun tadı damağımda kaldı”
			extra info: Uvular --> uvular doesnt exist in English

Glottal			(gırtlak - produced with glottis)
			At the larynx (the glottis is the space between the vocal folds)
			H ---> dil pasif durumda ---> hot


EXAMPLES, QUESTIONS:
	pencil – bilabial and alveolor
	hot – glottal and alveolor
	book – bilabial and velar
	television – alveolar, labiodental, palatal, velar
	“fine - vine” pairs of words contains consonants that are labiodental and fricative


			
---> Manner orf articulation
sesler nasıl oluşturuluyor
how the air flows from the mouth
how sounds are articulated

stop (plosive)		the air is blocked and then released
			p, b, t, d, k, g
			“pubg tdk’de duruyor”

Fricatives		hava tutuluyor sonrasında sıkıştırılarak bırakılıyor
			blocking air and squeezing it while it leaves mouth
			f, v, s, z, ∫, з, ð, Θ
			
			“ojesiz ve şeffaf” + dental

Affricate		a consonant that begins as a stop and then releases as a fricative
			(stop ile fricative birleşimi)
			t∫  - ç, dз - c

Nasal			Burunla ilgili
			the airstream passes through the nose as a result of the lowering of the soft palate
			hava geniz boşluğuna gönderilir sonrasında
			hava burundan üflenir
			m, n, ŋ

Approximant		yaklaşma
			bringing the parts of the mouth that produce speech close together
				1. Liquid
					tongue touches alveolar ridge and air stream flows from two sides of tongue
					(dilimiz dişimizin arasındaki çıkıntıya temas eder dilin her iki tarafından hava çıkar)
					L, R

				2. Glide
					moving tongue from one place to another
					(dilimiz ağzımızın içinde hareket ediyor)
					it is also called semi-vowel
					W - one, J - y - university


---> Extra info:
Aspiration (patlama)
	P, t , k , (h) sound as the initial sound or before a stressed(vutgulu) syllable
		Tend, attack, poor, appear, cat, occassion
	Kelimeyi söylerken önüne kağıt koy rüzgarı varsa aspiration – vurgulu hece


Voicing State and Vowels
		Voiced sounds: when vocal folds vibrate
		(m, n, v)
		Voiceless: when vocal folds do not vibrate
		(k, p, s)

	Vowel
		The flow of air is not limited
		1- Tongue Height
			High vowels: i:, ı, u:, υ  (: - uzun)
			Mid vowels: …
			Low-vowels: a:,…
		2- Tongue Advancement
			Front: i:, ı, e, æ
			Back: u:, a: …
			Central: …
		3- Lip Rounding
			Rounded: u:, ..
			Unrounded: 

	Dipthongs
		İki ünlünün birleşimiyle oluşan çift sesli gibi gözüken ama tek ses
		A combination of two vowel sounds

	Tripthongs
		A combination of three vowel sound – flower okunuşu








