---> ENGLISH LANGUAGE SKILLS TEST											prepared by Uğur ARSLAN, @arslanuguur
		Student’s Name: 
          
	  	READING										15 pts
	           January 7 is Benny's birthday. He will be eight years old. He is in the third grade. 
        	   He goes to Park Elementary School. An elementary school is for kids.
		   It is only one mile away from his house. He walks to school. It only takes twenty minutes. 
		   When it rains, he wears a raincoat. He used to take an umbrella. But he lost the umbrella. 
		   His mother gave him another umbrella. He broke that one. 
		   His mom said, “You and umbrellas don't get along.” 
		   For his eighth birthday, Benny wants a bicycle. He had tried to ride his friends’ bicycles before.
		   He can ride the bike to school. After school he can ride with his friends.
		   He can ride the bike to the swimming pool and the library.
		   His mom and dad took him to the bike store. They asked him to look at the bikes.
		   He looked at all the bikes. He chose a red bike. 
		   He showed his parents. Dad said it cost too much that is more expensive than the others
		   He told Benny to choose another bike. Benny chose a blue bike. 
		   Dad said the blue bike was the right price.
		   Now, Benny is getting used to riding his new bicycle.


          	WRITING										20 pts
           		1. Q – What had he tried to do before?
               		   A - ?

			2. Q - Which bike did he prefer rather than the red bicycle?
               		   A - ?

			3. Q – What did his parents ask him to look at?
			   A - ?

			4. Q - What is he getting used to riding?
			   A - ?

			5. Q - Does he want an umbrella for his eighth birthday?
			   A – ?


		LISTENING									25 pts
           		In this part, you listen to five short recordings and for each recording you have to choose the best of three pictures. 
           		You can listen to the audio twice.

			Recording 1: ?
			Recording 2: ?
			Recording 3: ?
			Recording 4: ?
			Recording 5: ?
	
		** The following parts will be filled by the teacher. 
          	SPEAKING									30 pts
           		Giving personal information: 
           		Expressing daily activities:
           		Expressing future plans:
           		Describing people:
           		Using numbers, days, months, years:
	
	
		PRONUNCIATION									10 pts
			Intelligibility:
			Learning how speech sounds are articulated: 
			Learning common intonation patterns: 
			Learning sentence stress:
			Learning different types of word stress:
	









AÇIK ÖĞRETİM LİSE

EXAM I
he prefer swimming to running
I worked too hard and I didn't spend enough time with my children last year. I wish I could spend enough time with them
I didn't use to drive a car when I was twenty years old
personal interests mean things you enjoy
I hope I will travel around the world and see many different places in the future
as soon as I got on the bus, I realized that I hadn't switched off the oven
when I got home, the children had already gone to bed
my mother is really fond of knitting
I went to Paris last month. I had never seen such a beautiful city before
while Jason was watching telly, his son was reading the mnewspaper
Mary is going to have an English exam tomorrow. She is going to study tonight
if I had known her phone number, I would have called her (Type 3)
yesterday I got very sleepy so I went to bed early
last night, my bro had already slept by the time my dad came
what kind of programmes do you prefer to watch? - I usually watch documentaries
a mecathronics engineer designs, repairs or reprograms robots
she sprained her ankle. - Oh, my gosh! how did it happen? 
I was freezing and I didnt wear my coat yesterday. If only I had worn my coat
I couldn't pay the bills yesterday. If only I hadn't spent so much money


EXAM II
before the slavery was abolished, people were used to be sold and bought
many people feel afraid when they see a big spider
identity theft and invasion of privacy are some of the popular cyber scams/crimes
before you access the website, you have to create an account and log in
John is afraid of failure
in my opinion, jazz is the most relaxing form of music --> that's exactly how I feel. I listen to jazz music when I feel stressed. It calms me down
what should we do for the disabled people?
	the roads should be constructed according to their needs
	school systems should be established for them
	jobs and shelter should be provided to them
I feel exhausted. -- you must go to bed early
Penny is going to travel the world next summer
Nicole has a lot of energy. She is dynamic
abuse of human rights means violation of the basic rights for people
what is Jeremy like? - he is fit but not a muscular type
how do you feel about classical music -- I love it. Classical music is great. I enjoy piano and violin duets
I have bought a new car. I am very pleased with it
those suitcases look heavy -- I will help you with them
how are the things going with your new rommate? -- Actually not good. She is always making loud noise
many local and global regulations work to help disadvantaged people
I feel depressed these days -- chill out! let's do something fun
positive people around you make your life more enjoyable
Metal music lyrics are annoying


Exam III
She can't go there by herself, because she is too young
I have forgotten my wallet -- don't worry. I will lend you some money if you like
I didn't mean to hurt you, Jack. Please accept my apology
we can take photos, videos and download music with smartphones
could I have the bill please -- ofc, sir. I will just go and get it for you
technological devices such as smartphones, tablet PCs, portable chargers and smartwatches make our life better and easier
our school is located in the middle of our town
what time do you usually get up at the weekend?
I could buy the house although it was very expensive. I'm so happy! -- Oh really? How lucky you are!
if you hadn't eaten so much fast food, you would have been healtier
can you help me to plan Alice's birthday party? -- Sure, I would be glad to
the reason why they have come here is to help us
when something interests you, it means you are fond of it
I will never accept your apology because you hurt me a lot!
I think we should continue using oil and coal for energy -- I disagree with you. They destroy the environment
smartphones can be used for both communication and many computer related operations
to reduce the risk of climate change, we should make our homes more energy-efficient
can I speak to you for a moment? -- ofc. what about?
Barney wrote an apology letter to his teacher about his rude behaviours in the class
while James was studying, everybody was watching telly


Exam IV
Janet's study table was in a mess. she should have tidied it up
getting and bringing things together from different places means collection
it is raining outside and the roads are wet. drive carefully, pls
great means perfect
do you like extreme sports -- yes. Cliff diving is my favorite
jogging is done by many people for exercise
I had a terrible vacation last year. It waslike a nightmare
the letters are delivered by the postman every day
last term I failed all my exams. -- you should have studied harder
the house which we bought last year is very big
mrs. Heller is a vegetarian. she eats neither chicken nor fish
belonging to the distant past means ancient
it is very cold here. could you close the window, pls?
when did the accident happen? -- last weekend
where did the accident happen? -- in London
where was your mother born? -- in NY
Mark always goes to school on time. he is punctual
I am interested in scuba diving. -- paula says that she is interested in scuba diving 
scuba-diving is exciting and enjoyable


I like my sister very much. She is the apple of my eye
I feel myself in another world while I am under water. I love swimming
I couldn't pay the bills. If only I hadn't spent all my money
Emily has become a very successful tennis player, because she has trained a lot
in the past, people used to wash their clothes in rivers bacause they didn't have running water in many houses
these flowers look very dry. oh yes. I will water them immediately
Judy always studies a lot before her exams(hardworking). she produces original ideas(creative). she understands other people's feelings(sympathetic)
the museum is closed on Mondays so we can't go there today
even though women could not go to school, Marie Curie went to university. she became a famous scientist. she was an educated woman
I love capturing wonderful views and freezing moments of life. my hobby is taking photographs
Sarah isn't an organized person. she never plans her work
she couldn't go to the graduation party. she would have gone there if she hadn't been ill
I cut my hand while I was cutting tomatoes yesterday. I still can't use it easily
in the past, living conditions weren't so comfortable, people used to do all the errands by themselves
after my father had recovered completely, he returned to work
I think in the future, everybody will have a healing capsule qat home which will treat the whole family
Monica went to bed after she had taken a shower
She came home after working a 12-hour shift at the hospital. she was exhausted so she went straight to bed
where did yu use to live when you were a kid? - in a village
if she hadn't cheated on the exam, her teacher wouldn't have been disappointed 
while we were playing football, we broke the classroom window
She will travel around the country to assess the be
st sustainable energy source for each city. she is going to be an alternative energy consultant
she carries her needles and a ball of yarn everywhere. she loves knitting
when I graduate from school, I will go to university and I will learn how to cure animals. I am going to be a vet
what were you doing when I called you yesterday - I was having dinner
I like horse riding because I love these beautiful and graceful animals
tablets, smartphones and computers aren't toolsused for face to face communication
"to award" means to give someone a prize when they are successful
I would rather sleep in a tent than stay at a hotel
I would rather listen to music online than go to the concerts
at the court, it was understood that she wasn't guilty, she was innocent
If the weather were nice, we would play football
wind power is the use of air flow through wind turbines to provide the mechanical power to turn electric generators
do you spend a lot of time on the internet? - no, only 1 or 2 hours a day
in some cultures, it is considered rude if fingers are put into food
we should be more sensitive about environmental issues
it was a well-paid job so she accepted the job when they called
when do you usually listen to music? - while travelling
equality of opportunity is one of important principles in education reform
many people feel anxious they when they solve a problem
I like adrenaline and pushing myself to the limit so extreme sports are my favorite
he plays the guitar in an orchestra
I hope my children will have good friends who respect their values
She makes friends with everybody easily. She is very outgoing
Many people feel stressed when they have a lot of work to do
Which instruments can you play?
All the candidates had the same opportunities, so the election was held in a democratic way
How do you feel nowadays? -- I am willing to get out of my bed. I feel blue
I couldn't understand, would you mind explaining it again
By entering the url, you can access web pages
I moved to the neighborhood in January
I think we should find a solution for environmental problems
The cleaning is done by the workers
The earthquake hit the area while most were asleep
I'm terribly sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you
I bought a new smart phone for almost its half price
Would you mind working late tonight?
In a story, Setting is the time and the place of the story
She had lived in Madrid for five years before she moved to London
He wishes he hadn't done bad things to his friends when he was at high school
He will plan, direct and coordinate the management or operation of farms, ranches and greenhouses. He is going to be an agricultural manager
I wish I had learned to play a musical instrument when I was young

Jobs was interested in technology. He developed a personal computer. He is known as the Grandfather of the Digital Revolution


respondent
?contented, frustrated
generous # mean
polite # rude

she is a strict person; she gives a lot of importance to obey the rules


