
The Zen of Python
Beautiful is better than ugly.
Explicit is better than implicit.
Simple is better than complex.
Complex is better than complicated.
Flat is better than nested.
Sparse is better than dense.
Readability counts.
Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules.
Although practicality beats purity.
Errors should never pass silently.
Unless explicitly silenced.
In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.
There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch.
Now is better than never.
Although never is often better than *right* now.
If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea.
If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea.
Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!




NOBEL AWARDS

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2019
William G. Kaelin Jr, Sir Peter J. Ratcliffe and Gregg L. Semenza 
"for their discoveries of how cells sense and adapt to oxygen availability"
2019 nobel tıp hücresel teori - oksijen de alkali

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2018
James P. Allison and Tasuku Honjo 
"for their discovery of cancer therapy by inhibition of negative immune regulation"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2017
Jeffrey C. Hall, Michael Rosbash and Michael W. Young 
"for their discoveries of molecular mechanisms controlling the circadian rhythm"
2017 nobel tıp biyolojik saat üç kişi

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2016
Yoshinori Ohsumi 
"for his discoveries of mechanisms for autophagy"
Vücudun kan ph'ı alkali - 2016 nobel tıp alkali ph yüksekse kanserli hücre çoğalamıyor bile

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2015
William C. Campbell and Satoshi Ōmura 
"for their discoveries concerning a novel therapy against infections caused by roundworm parasites"
Tu Youyou "for her discoveries concerning a novel therapy against Malaria"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2014
John O'Keefe, May-Britt Moser and Edvard I. Moser 
"for their discoveries of cells that constitute a positioning system in the brain"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2013
James E. Rothman, Randy W. Schekman and Thomas C. Südhof 
"for their discoveries of machinery regulating vesicle traffic, a major transport system in our cells"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2012
Sir John B. Gurdon and Shinya Yamanaka 
"for the discovery that mature cells can be reprogrammed to become pluripotent"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2011
Bruce A. Beutler and Jules A. Hoffmann 
"for their discoveries concerning the activation of innate immunity"
Ralph M. Steinman 
"for his discovery of the dendritic cell and its role in adaptive immunity"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2010
Robert G. Edwards 
"for the development of in vitro fertilization"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2009  - Elizabeth H. Blackburn, Carol W. Greider and Jack W. Szostak 
"for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres and the enzyme telomerase"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2008
Harald zur Hausen
"for his discovery of human papilloma viruses causing cervical cancer"
Françoise Barré-Sinoussi and Luc Montagnier 
"for their discovery of human immunodeficiency virus"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2007
Mario R. Capecchi, Sir Martin J. Evans and Oliver Smithies 
"for their discoveries of principles for introducing specific gene modifications in mice by the use of embryonic stem cells"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2006
Andrew Z. Fire and Craig C. Mello 
"for their discovery of RNA interference – gene silencing by double-stranded RNA"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2005
Barry J. Marshall and J. Robin Warren 
"for their discovery of the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and its role in gastritis and peptic ulcer disease"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2004
Richard Axel and Linda B. Buck 
"for their discoveries of odorant receptors and the organization of the olfactory system"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2003
Paul C. Lauterbur and Sir Peter Mansfield "for their discoveries concerning magnetic resonance imaging"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2002
Sydney Brenner, H. Robert Horvitz and John E. Sulston 
"for their discoveries concerning genetic regulation of organ development and programmed cell death'"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2001
Leland H. Hartwell, Tim Hunt and Sir Paul M. Nurse 
"for their discoveries of key regulators of the cell cycle"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 2000
Arvid Carlsson, Paul Greengard and Eric R. Kandel 
"for their discoveries concerning signal transduction in the nervous system"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1999
Günter Blobel 
"for the discovery that proteins have intrinsic signals that govern their transport and localization in the cell"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1998
Robert F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro and Ferid Murad 
"for their discoveries concerning nitric oxide as a signalling molecule in the cardiovascular system"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1997
Stanley B. Prusiner 
"for his discovery of Prions – a new biological principle of infection"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1996
Peter C. Doherty and Rolf M. Zinkernagel 
"for their discoveries concerning the specificity of the cell mediated immune defence"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1995
Edward B. Lewis, Christiane Nüsslein-Volhard and Eric F. Wieschaus 
"for their discoveries concerning the genetic control of early embryonic development"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1994
Alfred G. Gilman and Martin Rodbell 
"for their discovery of G-proteins and the role of these proteins in signal transduction in cells"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1993
Richard J. Roberts and Phillip A. Sharp 
"for their discoveries of split genes"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1992
Edmond H. Fischer and Edwin G. Krebs 
"for their discoveries concerning reversible protein phosphorylation as a biological regulatory mechanism"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1991
Erwin Neher and Bert Sakmann 
"for their discoveries concerning the function of single ion channels in cells"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1990
Joseph E. Murray and E. Donnall Thomas 
"for their discoveries concerning organ and cell transplantation in the treatment of human disease"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1989
J. Michael Bishop and Harold E. Varmus 
"for their discovery of the cellular origin of retroviral oncogenes"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1988
Sir James W. Black, Gertrude B. Elion and George H. Hitchings 
"for their discoveries of important principles for drug treatment"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1987
Susumu Tonegawa 
"for his discovery of the genetic principle for generation of antibody diversity"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1986
Stanley Cohen and Rita Levi-Montalcini 
"for their discoveries of growth factors"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1985
Michael S. Brown and Joseph L. Goldstein 
"for their discoveries concerning the regulation of cholesterol metabolism"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1984
Niels K. Jerne, Georges J.F. Köhler and César Milstein 
"for theories concerning the specificity in development and control of the immune system and the discovery of the principle for production of monoclonal antibodies"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1983
Barbara McClintock 
"for her discovery of mobile genetic elements"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1982
Sune K. Bergström, Bengt I. Samuelsson and John R. Vane 
"for their discoveries concerning prostaglandins and related biologically active substances"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1981
Roger W. Sperry 
"for his discoveries concerning the functional specialization of the cerebral hemispheres"
David H. Hubel and Torsten N. Wiesel 
"for their discoveries concerning information processing in the visual system"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1980
Baruj Benacerraf, Jean Dausset and George D. Snell 
"for their discoveries concerning genetically determined structures on the cell surface that regulate immunological reactions"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1979
Allan M. Cormack and Godfrey N. Hounsfield
"for the development of computer assisted tomography"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1978
Werner Arber, Daniel Nathans and Hamilton O. Smith 
"for the discovery of restriction enzymes and their application to problems of molecular genetics"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1977
Roger Guillemin and Andrew V. Schally 
"for their discoveries concerning the peptide hormone production of the brain"
Rosalyn Yalow
"for the development of radioimmunoassays of peptide hormones"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1976
Baruch S. Blumberg and D. Carleton Gajdusek
"for their discoveries concerning new mechanisms for the origin and dissemination of infectious diseases"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1975
David Baltimore, Renato Dulbecco and Howard Martin Temin
"for their discoveries concerning the interaction between tumour viruses and the genetic material of the cell"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1974
Albert Claude, Christian de Duve and George E. Palade 
"for their discoveries concerning the structural and functional organization of the cell"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1973
Karl von Frisch, Konrad Lorenz and Nikolaas Tinbergen 
"for their discoveries concerning organization and elicitation of individual and social behaviour patterns"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1972
Gerald M. Edelman and Rodney R. Porter 
"for their discoveries concerning the chemical structure of antibodies"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1971
Earl W. Sutherland, Jr. 
"for his discoveries concerning the mechanisms of the action of hormones"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1970
Sir Bernard Katz, Ulf von Euler and Julius Axelrod 
"for their discoveries concerning the humoral transmittors in the nerve terminals and the mechanism for their storage, release and inactivation"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1969
Max Delbrück, Alfred D. Hershey and Salvador E. Luria 
"for their discoveries concerning the replication mechanism and the genetic structure of viruses"
Virüsler nasıl çoğalıyor
Genetik aslında bi bilgi alışverişi olarak belirliyorlar

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1968
Robert W. Holley, Har Gobind Khorana and Marshall W. Nirenberg 
"for their interpretation of the genetic code and its function in protein synthesis"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1967
Ragnar Granit, Haldan Keffer Hartline and George Wald 
"for their discoveries concerning the primary physiological and chemical visual processes in the eye"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1966
Peyton Rous 
"for his discovery of tumour-inducing viruses"
Charles Brenton Huggins 
"for his discoveries concerning hormonal treatment of prostatic cancer"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1965
François Jacob, André Lwoff and Jacques Monod 
"for their discoveries concerning genetic control of enzyme and virus synthesis"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1964
Konrad Bloch and Feodor Lynen 
"for their discoveries concerning the mechanism and regulation of the cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1963
Sir John Carew Eccles, Alan Lloyd Hodgkin and Andrew Fielding Huxley 
"for their discoveries concerning the ionic mechanisms involved in excitation and inhibition in the peripheral and central portions of the nerve cell membrane"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1962
Francis Harry Compton Crick, James Dewey Watson and Maurice Hugh Frederick Wilkins 
"for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1961
Georg von Békésy "for his discoveries of the physical mechanism of stimulation within the cochlea"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1960
Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet and Peter Brian Medawar "for discovery of acquired immunological tolerance"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1959
Severo Ochoa and Arthur Kornberg "for their discovery of the mechanisms in the biological synthesis of ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic acid"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1958
George Wells Beadle and Edward Lawrie Tatum "for their discovery that genes act by regulating definite chemical events"
Joshua Lederberg "for his discoveries concerning genetic recombination and the organization of the genetic material of bacteria"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1957
Daniel Bovet "for his discoveries relating to synthetic compounds that inhibit the action of certain body substances, and especially their action on the vascular system and the skeletal muscles"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1956
André Frédéric Cournand, Werner Forssmann and Dickinson W. Richards "for their discoveries concerning heart catheterization and pathological changes in the circulatory system"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1955
Axel Hugo Theodor Theorell "for his discoveries concerning the nature and mode of action of oxidation enzymes"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1954
John Franklin Enders, Thomas Huckle Weller and Frederick Chapman Robbins "for their discovery of the ability of poliomyelitis viruses to grow in cultures of various types of tissue"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1953
Hans Adolf Krebs "for his discovery of the citric acid cycle"
Fritz Albert Lipmann "for his discovery of co-enzyme A and its importance for intermediary metabolism"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1952
Selman Abraham Waksman "for his discovery of streptomycin, the first antibiotic effective against tuberculosis"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1951
Max Theiler "for his discoveries concerning yellow fever and how to combat it"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1950
Edward Calvin Kendall, Tadeus Reichstein and Philip Showalter Hench "for their discoveries relating to the hormones of the adrenal cortex, their structure and biological effects"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1949
Walter Rudolf Hess "for his discovery of the functional organization of the interbrain as a coordinator of the activities of the internal organs"
Antonio Caetano de Abreu Freire Egas Moniz "for his discovery of the therapeutic value of leucotomy in certain psychoses"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1948
Paul Hermann Müller "for his discovery of the high efficiency of DDT as a contact poison against several arthropods"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1947
Carl Ferdinand Cori and Gerty Theresa Cori, née Radnitz "for their discovery of the course of the catalytic conversion of glycogen"
Bernardo Alberto Houssay "for his discovery of the part played by the hormone of the anterior pituitary lobe in the metabolism of sugar"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1946
Hermann Joseph Muller "for the discovery of the production of mutations by means of X-ray irradiation"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1945
Sir Alexander Fleming, Ernst Boris Chain and Sir Howard Walter Florey "for the discovery of penicillin and its curative effect in various infectious diseases"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1944
Joseph Erlanger and Herbert Spencer Gasser "for their discoveries relating to the highly differentiated functions of single nerve fibres"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1943
Henrik Carl Peter Dam "for his discovery of vitamin K"
Edward Adelbert Doisy "for his discovery of the chemical nature of vitamin K"

No Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1942
No Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1941
No Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1940

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1939
Gerhard Domagk "for the discovery of the antibacterial effects of prontosil"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1938
Corneille Jean François Heymans "for the discovery of the role played by the sinus and aortic mechanisms in the regulation of respiration"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1937
Albert von Szent-Györgyi Nagyrápolt "for his discoveries in connection with the biological combustion processes, with special reference to vitamin C and the catalysis of fumaric acid"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1936
Sir Henry Hallett Dale and Otto Loewi "for their discoveries relating to chemical transmission of nerve impulses"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1935
Hans Spemann "for his discovery of the organizer effect in embryonic development"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1934
George Hoyt Whipple, George Richards Minot and William Parry Murphy "for their discoveries concerning liver therapy in cases of anaemia"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1933
Thomas Hunt Morgan "for his discoveries concerning the role played by the chromosome in heredity"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1932
Sir Charles Scott Sherrington and Edgar Douglas Adrian "for their discoveries regarding the functions of neurons"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1931
Otto Heinrich Warburg "for his discovery of the nature and mode of action of the respiratory enzyme"
1931 nobel oksijensiz ortamda kanser hücreleri artar- ozon terapileri!? Ama çok spekülasyon var

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1930
Karl Landsteiner "for his discovery of human blood groups"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1929
Christiaan Eijkman "for his discovery of the antineuritic vitamin"
Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins "for his discovery of the growth-stimulating vitamins"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1928
Charles Jules Henri Nicolle "for his work on typhus"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1927
Julius Wagner-Jauregg "for his discovery of the therapeutic value of malaria inoculation in the treatment of dementia paralytica"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1926
Johannes Andreas Grib Fibiger "for his discovery of the Spiroptera carcinoma"

No Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1925

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1924
Willem Einthoven "for his discovery of the mechanism of the electrocardiogram"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1923
Frederick Grant Banting and John James Rickard Macleod "for the discovery of insulin"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1922
Archibald Vivian Hill "for his discovery relating to the production of heat in the muscle"
Otto Fritz Meyerhof "for his discovery of the fixed relationship between the consumption of oxygen and the metabolism of lactic acid in the muscle"

No Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1921

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1920
Schack August Steenberg Krogh "for his discovery of the capillary motor regulating mechanism"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1919
Jules Bordet "for his discoveries relating to immunity"

No Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1918
No Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1917
No Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1916
No Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1915

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1914
Robert Bárány "for his work on the physiology and pathology of the vestibular apparatus"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1913
Charles Robert Richet "in recognition of his work on anaphylaxis"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1912
Alexis Carrel "in recognition of his work on vascular suture and the transplantation of blood vessels and organs"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1911
Allvar Gullstrand "for his work on the dioptrics of the eye"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1910
Albrecht Kossel "in recognition of the contributions to our knowledge of cell chemistry made through his work on proteins, including the nucleic substances"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1909
Emil Theodor Kocher "for his work on the physiology, pathology and surgery of the thyroid gland"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1908
Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov and Paul Ehrlich "in recognition of their work on immunity"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1907
Charles Louis Alphonse Laveran "in recognition of his work on the role played by protozoa in causing diseases"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1906
Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramón y Cajal "in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1905
Robert Koch "for his investigations and discoveries in relation to tuberculosis"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1904
Ivan Petrovich Pavlov "in recognition of his work on the physiology of digestion, through which knowledge on vital aspects of the subject has been transformed and enlarged"
Yiyecek bilgiyse, Düdük duygudur köpek için

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1903
Niels Ryberg Finsen "in recognition of his contribution to the treatment of diseases, especially lupus vulgaris, with concentrated light radiation, whereby he has opened a new avenue for medical science"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1902
Ronald Ross "for his work on malaria, by which he has shown how it enters the organism and thereby has laid the foundation for successful research on this disease and methods of combating it"

The Nobel in Physiology or Medicine 1901
Emil Adolf von Behring "for his work on serum therapy, especially its application against diphtheria, by which he has opened a new road in the domain of medical science and thereby placed in the hands of the physician a victorious weapon against illness and deaths"








---> TURKS
698 Mimar Sinan Died at 99 (1489-1588) 
  Koca Mi'mâr Sinân Âğâ was the chief Ottoman architect and civil engineer for sultans Suleiman the Magnificent, Selim II, and Murad III. 
  He was responsible for the construction of more than 300 major structures and other more modest projects, such as his Islamic primary schools. 
  His apprentices would later design the Sultan Ahmed Mosque in Istanbul, Stari Most in Mostar, and help design the Taj Mahal in the Mughal Empire. 
  The son of a stonemason, he received a technical education Süleymaniye Camisi, Kayseri devşirme 1935de kafatası çalındı

842 Yunus Emre Died at 81 (1240-1321) 
  Yunus Emre was a Turkish poet and Sufi mystic. He has exercised immense influence on Turkish literature, from his own day until the present. 
  Because Yunus Emre is, after Ahmet Yesevi and Sultan Walad, 
  one of the first known poets to have composed works in the spoken Turkish of his own age and region rather than in Persian or Arabic, 
  his diction remains very close to the popular speech of his contemporaries in Central and Western Anatolia. This is also the language of a number of anonymous folk-p…more


---> FRENCH
Fransız tiyatrosu denilince ilk akla gelen iki dev isim Molière (Komedi) ve Racine (Trajedi), 
                      Fransız monarşisinin altın çağı olan XIV. Louis devrinde yaşamışlar 
-- Jean Racine, French dramatist (1639–1699)
-- Molière, French dramatist, actor, director (1622–1673)
-- Pierre Corneille, French dramatist (1606–1684)

-- Jean de La Bruyère Died at 51 (1645-1696) Jean de La Bruyère was a French philosopher and moralist.
-- Lamartine (1790-1869)
-- Descartes
-- Rousseau
-- Stendhal (Marie-Henri Beyle) (1783-1842)
1.	The Charterhouse of Parma by Stendhal - waterloo savaşının tasviri -örneğin christian-jaque 1948'de çekmiş. 
    hatta bernardo bertolucci'nin devrim'den önce/prima della rivoluzione filminin parma manastırı'na yaslandığı yazılmış. 
    honore de balzac çağında okuduğu en iyi roman olarak nitelerken, lev tolstoy voyna i mir/savaş ve barış'ı yazarken onun waterloo savaşı yorumundan etkilenip
    borodino muharebesi sahnelerini oluşturmuş.
2.	The Red and the Black by Stendhal - ilk psikolojik roman, adını 19. yüzyıl fransa'sındaki ordunun kırmızı giysileri ile ruhban sınıfının siyah cüppelerinden alıyor.  
    napolyon sonrası fransa'sını anlattığı, 
    bir yandan da julien sorel isimli kahraman üzerinden insana insanı anlattığı roman romanın kahramanı julien sorel ile madame de renal.  
    bourbon restorasyonunun sona erdiği 
    ve 1848'de 2. cumhuriyet devri başlayana kadar mutlak monarşinin yerini tekrar constitutional monarchy (parlementer monarşi)'nin aldığı, 
    bayrağın tekrar kırmızı-beyaz-mavi rengi aldığı zaman.

Stendhal’in “Racine ve Shakespeare” eseri
      Floransa’da gördügü inanilmaz sayida sanat eseri karsisinda bayginlik geçirerek bir sendroma adini veren ünlü yazar Stendhal
        Unutmak isteyip de, her yıl yeni bir keyifle okumaktan kendini bir turlu alamadıgı iki kitap; don quijote ve binbir gece masalları olan kisi.
        - balzac hayran,nietzsche kıskanç 
        "her gun, ilham gelsin veya gelmesin yirmi satir yaziniz."
        "bir roman yol boyunca gezdirilen ayna demektir."
        ''neler yapabilrmişim, bir ben bilirim. başkaları ise, çok çok, ''belki yapardı'' diye düşünür, o kadar.''
        ''aşk çok renkli bir çiçektir, fakat korkunç uçurumların kenarında yetişir.''
        "tanrının tek özrü varolmayışıdır". "only great minds can afford a simple style." 
        mezar taşında "visse yaşadı*, scrisse yazdı*, âmo sevdi*" yazıyormuş
        hugo'nun, lamartine'in, vigny'nin lirizmine katlanamazdı, sevdiği tek şair beranger idi
        romantik üslup; “söylenmesi tamamen gereksiz pek çok ufak şey, işitilmesi kulağa hoş gelen pek çok küçük yalan”


11 Charles Darwin
Charles Robert Darwin, FRS was an English naturalist and geologist, best known for his contributions to evolutionary theory. 
He established that all species of life have descended over time from common ancestors, 
and in a joint publication with Alfred Russel Wallace introduced his scientific theory that this branching pattern of evolution resulted from a process 
that he called natural selection, in which the struggle for existence has a similar effect to the artificial selection

89 Alexander von Humboldt Died at 90 (1769-1859) :Perhaps the greatest savant and explorer who ever lived. 
He was a genius in many fields. Charles Darwin described him as "the greatest scientific traveler who ever lived." 
He is widely respected as one of the founders of modern geography. 
Alexander von Humboldt's travels, experiments, and knowledge transformed western science in the nineteenth century.
Friedrich Wilhelm Heinrich Alexander von Humboldt was a Prussian geographer, naturalist, and explorer, and the younger brother of the Prussian minister, 
philosopher and linguist Wilhelm von Humboldt. Humboldt's quantitative work on botanica
Profession: Scientist, Naturalist, Mountaineer + 1 more

170 Richard Dawkins age 74 
Clinton Richard Dawkins, FRS, FRSL is an English ethologist, evolutionary biologist, and writer. 
He is an emeritus fellow of New College, Oxford, and was the University of Oxford's Professor for Public Understanding of Science from 1995 until 2008. 
Dawkins came to prominence with his 1976 book The Selfish Gene, which popularised the gene-centred view of evolution and introduced the term meme. 
In 1982, he introduced into evolutionary biology the influential concept that the phenotypic effects of
Credits: The Root of All Evil?, The Genius of Charles Darwin, The Future is Now! + 6 more Profession: Evolutionary Biologist, Professor, Screenwriter + 3 more

365 Thomas Huxley Died at 70 (1825-1895)
:Thomas Henry Huxley PC FRS FLS was an English biologist, known as "Darwin's Bulldog" for his advocacy of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution. 
Huxley's famous debate in 1860 with Samuel Wilberforce was a key moment in the wider acceptance of evolution and in his own career. 
Huxley had been planning to leave Oxford on the previous day, 
but, after an encounter with Robert Chambers, the author of Vestiges, he changed his mind and decided to join the debate. 
Wilberforce was coached by Richard Owen, …more

448 Alfred Russel Wallace Died at 90 (1823-1913)
Alfred Russel Wallace OM FRS was a British naturalist, explorer, geographer, anthropologist, and biologist. 
He is best known for independently conceiving the theory of evolution through natural selection; 
his paper on the subject was jointly published with some of Charles Darwin's writings in 1858. 
This prompted Darwin to publish his own ideas in On the Origin of Species. 
Wallace did extensive fieldwork, first in the Amazon River basin and then in the Malay Archipelago, where he identified the f…more
Profession: Evolutionary Biologist, Biologist, Anthropologist + 4 more


Kirti Narayan Chaudhuri (Indian) Historian 
Elaine Pagels (American) Historian 
Natalie Zemon Davis Historian


  
•	135 Henrik Ibsen Died at 78 (1828-1906) 
Henrik Johan Ibsen was a major 19th-century Norwegian playwright, theatre director, and poet. 
He is often referred to as "the father of realism" and is one of the founders of Modernism in theatre. 
His major works include Brand, Peer Gynt, An Enemy of the People, Emperor and Galilean, A Doll's House, Hedda Gabler, Ghosts, The Wild Duck, Rosmersholm, and The Master Builder.
He is the most frequently performed dramatist in the world after Shakespeare, and A Doll's House became the world's most perf…more
•	The Greatest Playwrights in History, The Best Writers of All Time
Credits: A Doll's House, A Man There Was, An Enemy of the People + 19 more

Jon Fosse (Norwegian) Writer & dramatist 



Formal Sciences
  Logic 
  Mathematics
  Mathematical logic
  Mathematical statistics
  Theoretical computer science
      logic, mathematics, statistics, theoretical computer science, information theory,game theory, systems theory, decision theory, and portions of linguistics. 
  Physical Sciences
  Chemistry
      Acid-base 
      Analytical 
      Environmental 
      Inorganic 
      Nuclear 
      Organic 
      Physical 
      Solid-state 
      Supramolecular 
      Sustainable ("green") 
      Theoretical
      Astrochemistry 
      Biochemistry 
      Crystallography 
      Food chemistry 
      Geochemistry 
      Materials science 
      Molecular physics 
      Photochemistry 
      Radiochemistry 
      Stereochemistry 
      Surface science

Physics
Classical 
Modern 
Applied
Experimental 
Theoretical
Computational
Atomic 
Condensed matter
Mechanics (classical continuum fluid solid)
Molecular
Nuclear 
Particle 
Plasma 
Quantum field theory
 Quantum mechanics (introduction)
Special relativity 
General relativity
Rheology 
String theory 
Thermodynamics

Earth sciences
Climatology 
Ecology 
Edaphology 
Environmental science 
Geodesy 
Geography (physical) 
Geology 
Geomorphology 
Geophysics 
Glaciology 
Hydrology 
Limnology 
Meteorology 
Oceanography 
Paleoclimatology 
Paleoecology 
Palynology 
Pedology 
Volcanology

Space science
Astronomy 
Astrophysics 
Cosmology 
Galactic astronomy 
Planetary geology 
Planetary science 
Stellar astronomy


Life Sciences
Biology
Anatomy 
Anthropology 
Astrobiology 
Biochemistry 
Biogeography 
Biological engineering 
Biophysics 
Behavioral neuroscience 
Biotechnology 
Botany 
Cell biology 
Conservation biology 
Cryobiology 
Developmental biology 
Ecology 
Ethnobiology 
Ethology 
Evolutionary biology (introduction) 
Genetics (introduction) 
Gerontology 
Immunology 
Limnology 
Marine biology 
Microbiology 
Molecular biology 
Neuroscience 
Paleontology 
Parasitology 
Physiology 
Radiobiology 
Soil biology 
Sociobiology 
Systematics 
Toxicology 
Zoology

Social
Anthropology 
Archaeology 
Criminology 
Demography 
Economics 
Geography (human) 
History 
International relations 
Law 
Linguistics 
Pedagogy 
Political science 
Psychology 
Science education 
Sociology

Applied Sciences
Engineering
Aerospace 
Agricultural 
Biological 
Biomedical 
Chemical 
Civil 
Computer science / engineering
Electrical 
Fire protection 
Genetic 
Industrial 
Mechanical 
Military 
Mining 
Nuclear 
Operations research 
Robotics 
Software 
Web

Healthcare
Medicine 
Veterinary 
Dentistry 
Midwifery 
Epidemiology 
Pharmacy 
Nursing
Interdisciplinary Sciences
Applied physics 
Artificial intelligence 
Bioethics 
Bioinformatics 
Biomedical engineering 
Biostatistics 
Cognitive science 
Complex systems 
Computational linguistics 
Cultural studies 
Cybernetics 
Environmental science 
Environmental social science 
Environmental studies 
Ethnic studies 
Evolutionary psychology
Forestry 
Library science
Mathematical / theoretical biology
Mathematical physics 
Military science 
Network science 
Neural engineering 
Neuroscience 
Science studies 
Scientific modelling 
Semiotics 
Sociobiology 
Statistics 
Systems science 
Urban planning 
Web science
Philosophy – History Sciences
Basic research 
Citizen science 
Fringe science 
Protoscience 
Pseudoscience 
Freedom 
Policy 
Funding 
Method 
Technoscience



QUOTES
zihin içi doldurulacak bir kazan degil, ateslenmesi gereken bir kivilcimdir plutarkhos
no one saw you enter. no one has to see you leave
"bizleri akil, mantik, ve zeka ile donatan tanri'nin bizim bunlari kullanmamamizi istedigine inanma zorunlulugu hissetmiyorum." galileo
"kesfedildikten sonra gerçekleri anlamak çok kolaydir. mesele kesfetmekte!"galileo
"uzun dönemde hepimiz ölüyüz" - j.m. keynes
hayatin sirri dengedir.
if you cant use it abuse it
aslında en büyük hata, hatayı algıladığında geri dönememektir
keep your friends close,and your enemies even closer
the tragedy is not the brutality of evil, but the silence of good people.luther king jr.
yaratıcılığın %90'ı terlemektir. edison
think big, act as appropriate
your anger is a gift...zack de la rocha
if you are second, then you are the first of the losers
ne kadar umudun yoksa, o kadar ozgursundur. metin ustundag
if you never know failure, how can you know success?
may the force be with you
just remember there's a big difference between kneeling down and bending over.frank zappa)
who ever delighted in solitude is either a wild beast or a god.
there are no strangers, only friends we haven't met yet. an irish saying
sadece iki kişiye güvenirim: biri benim, diğeri sen değilsin.
there's no fun in having nothing to do,
the fun is having lots to do, and not doing them.francis herbert
a chemist never dies, s/he just reaches equilibrium ..

"i must not fear. fear is the mindkiller. fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. 
  i will face my fear. i will permit it to pass over me and through me. 
  and when it has gone past i will turn the inner eye to see its path. 
  where the fear is gone there will be nothing. only i will remain."dune, frank herbert
any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. arthur c clarke
"beginning to think is beginning to be undermined" -albert camus
"incoming fire has the right of way"
"the one thing that is more accurate then the enemy fire is the friendly fire"
"if your sargeant can see you, so can the enemy"
"if the enemy is in range, so are you"
"the problem with taking the easy way out is that the enemy has already mined it"
"if your attack is going well, you have walked into an ambush" murphy
"in the middle of nowhere a map is of a little value"
"it's not how you enter the ring, it's how you leave" boxing
software is like sex, it's better when it's free - linus torvalds
self destruction is the answer - tyler durden
havaya fırlatılan bir taş eğer konuşabilseydi mutlaka kendi iradesiyle yola çıktığını söylerdi. (bkz: spinoza)
man in the univers is like a cat in a library, he sees and listens, but understands nothing. (william james)
"there is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. books are well written or badly  written. that is all."oscar wilde
always two there are no more no less - yoda episode 1
"yolun yabancısı olunmaz, işaretlerin yabancısı olunur." 
"patriotism is your conviction that this country is superior to all other countries because you were born in it." --george bernard shaw 
when you do not know of heaven, hell can be fun
"there are two kinds of people, those who do the work and those who take the credit. try  
to be in the first group; there is less competition there." - indira gandhi
take your life in your own hands and what happens? a terrible thing: no one to blame.
"a man is rich in proportion to the things he can afford to let alone." - thoreau
"all progress means war with society." - george bernard shaw


